It is about managing change; integrating the old and new in ways that improve the quality of life in our community; and maintaining the unique qualities that make Hillsborough such a great place to live, work and
visit. Through the years the seven organizations that make up the Alliance for Historic Hillsborough have worked to enhance a quality of life in Hillsborough that is defined by our vibrant neighborhoods, spectacular setting, lively
downtown, and notable historic structures. The
EfficiencyGarden Viewoffers you a home away from home with its full kitchen, private bath, and spacious deck. Queen Bed     1 night $120/night; 2 nights
$100/night; 3 to 7 nights $95/night; 7+ nights $90/nightGarden View Rates Garden View Guests can receive additional discounts if guests wish to fix their own breakfast For availability call 919-304-6287 or email ficklecreek at mebtel dot net. The includes a private bath and offers you the comforts of our home. Quilt Room Private Bath Shared
Living Area includes screened porch and deck 1 night
$100/night; 2 nights $90/night; 3 to 7 nights $85/night; 7+ nights $80/nightQuilt Room Rates For availability call 919-304-6287 or email ficklecreek at mebtel dot net We are happy to offer the following to better accomodate your stay Daily soup Lantern local pasture-raised pork and chive dumplings Fresh black mushroom and cabbage dumplings Spicy
curried beets with black cumin, crème fraîche and pappadum Local pasture-raised chicken spring rolls with Edwards country ham,
          oyster mushrooms and hot mustard Sake and tea-cured salmon bento box with house pickled ginger and red cabbage,           wasabi, miso-mayonnaise, sticky rice and nori Salt and pepper shrimp - fresh NC shrimp with crispy shells, fried
jalapenos,           coriander and sea salt Head-to-tail Fickle Creek Farm
pork terrine with pickled green tomatoes Spicy sesame
noodles
with napa cabbage, carrots, cucumber and cilantro Lantern local
pickle plate Chaat - roasted local cauliflower, crispy chickpeas, potatoes,           pickled red onions and mint chutney Seasonal greens with ume plum vinaigrette Originally settled by the , the Occoneechee Mountain State Natural Area has a diversity of natural communities including undisturbed forest and a wide variety of wildlife species.
Occaneechi Band of the Saponi Nation Preview your trip
on the web: Occoneechee Mountain
State Natural Area Learn more An electronic magazine for kids in grades 4-8 and their teachers too that features constantly changing information, games, and
activities about nature and the environment. From Raleigh & Chapel Hill: I-40 West to Exit 160. Turn right off exit; turn right after railroad tracks. Behind Levi's Printing. Look for signs! From Greensboro: I-85
North to Exit 160. Turn left off exit; turn right after railroad tracks. Behind Levi's Printing. Look for signs! Announcements made the day of the sale take
precedence over printed or online materials. 13% Buyers Premium - 3% Discount for Cash or Check Thank you for visiting Village Square Auctions Online! Look for black mailbox 4122 on right. Opposite mailbox turn
left into gravel drive. Bear left at first fork. Bear right at second fork.From East via Interstate 40 west / 85 south Get to Calvander at the intersection of Old 86 / Homestead Road / Hillsborough Rd / Dairyland Road. Go west on Dairyland Road 6.8 miles. Mapleview Farm Ice Cream store on right at intersection of Dairyland & Rocky Ridge Rd.
Housemade red curry and tofu stew with local pumpkin, spinach, red onions,
          fresh curry leaves and steamed jasmine rice Crispy slow-cooked duck soup with fresh egg noodles, oyster mushrooms, shanghai bok choy           and scallions Steamed wild striped bass with seared ginger, scallions, fermented black beans,           green chiles, steamed baby bok choy and jasmine rice Tea and spice smoked local, pasture-raised chicken with yang chow pork and shrimp fried rice,
          local spicy greens and housemade XO sauce Coconut braised Niman
Ranch pork shank with
fresh galangal,                           crispy shallots, spicy green papaya salad and jasmine rice  Fried whole North Carolina flounder with garlic, chiles, tamarind, fresh lime leaf,           carrot salad and jasmine rice Korean-style braised beef short ribs with local Napa kimchi and Pine Knot Farm           white sweet potato-chile pancake
The ponds are filling and were stocked with juvenile bream in
October 2008. Largemouth bass and catfish are scheduled to be stocked in Spring 2009. Expect at least two years for fish to grow to "keeper" size. Address: Email: eno.river@ncmail.net High
scenic views and mountain trails await you at Occoneechee
Mountain State Natural Area. This Piedmont monadnock has been recognized as
one of the most important natural areas in the Triangle. (P) Chicken with Rice; Jambalaya Soup; Moroccan Chicken in Phyllo; Pulled Chicken Salad.CHICKEN COOKERY: Sunday, February 1, 2009 at 2pm $25 (P) Panzanella;
Lemon Risotto with Shaved Parmesan;
Chicken Piccata with Seasonal
Vegetables; Tiramis .ITALIAN MENU: Tuesday,
February 3, 2009 at 6:30pm $25 (P) Lemongrass-Ginger Soup; Thai Noodle Salad;
Chicken Satay; Peanut Sauce.THAI
MENU: Thursday, February 5, 2009 at 6:30pm $25 (H) Learn how to make a delicious range of sweets from scratch. Perfect for the beginning baker. Apple Crisp; Orange Biscotti; Chiffon Cake; Chocolate Empanadas; Carrot-Nut Bread; Checkerboard
Cookies.BASIC BAKING: Saturday, February 7, 2009 at 9am$60 (P) Baked Eggs Florentine; Stuffed French Toast; Apple Comp te; Virgin Mimosas.BRUNCH: Sunday, February 8, 2009 at 2pm$25 (P) Seafood Bisque; Blackened Scallops; Baked Fish in Parchment; Old-Fashioned Tuna Casserole.SEAFOOD: Wednesday, February 11, 2009 at 6:30pm $25 The amazing story of their rescue from the island is the subject of NY Times
writer & author Peter Kaminsky’s upcoming book,
Pig Perfect. Among the
tale’s heroines is Eliza Maclean, one of only two farmers in the world
currently raising Ossabaws. Luckily for us, Eliza’s Cane Creek Farm is in Mebane. The evening benefited the , the Pittsboro-based group who has tirelessly worked to save rare farm breeds from extinction since 1977. Luksusowa potato
vodka, sake and fresh cucumber Hibiscus-infused vodka, fresh lime juice and Thai basil Luksusowa vodka, Lillet Blanc, lychee juice
and orange flower water Pimm’s, fresh ginger & lemon soda and cucumber Mango
purée, lemongrass, sake & vodka, served straight up with lemon Blenheim spicy
ginger ale & Gosling’s
dark rumStrange
AcquaintanceWhisky, ruby port, lemon, Blenheim spicy ginger ale and egg white The Red Geisha Muddled fresh organic strawberries with lime, ginger and vodka Windy Village Meyer lemon and cucumber gin with fresh lemon juiceSingapore Sling Also available for extended stays. The Inn at Teardrops Directions phone (919) 732-1120 6 rooms. An old-fashioned B&B located in the heart of historic Hillsborough. Built in 1769 and enlarged in 1880, the house is furnished with antiques and has a small garden for guests to enjoy. Kids up to 6 are free. Free local calls. Local heirloom apple and sorghum cake with caramel           and cider vinegar ice cream Coconut panna cotta with passionfruit caramel           and a coconut cookie Hot
chocolate cake with roasted peanut ice cream Local Asian pear sundae- crème fraîche ice cream,           spiced red wine caramel and honeyed pistachios Ferguson Farm concord-muscadine grape sorbet with a sesame-cashew fortune updated 1/10/09 - menu subject to change please call to confirm the availability of specific items Warm Therapni kalamata olives Charred eggplant salad with wild sumac Grilled octopus with aleppo pepper and mint Homemade yogurt with cucumbers & fennel Overnight fresh-pulled garlic in Greek olive oil Heirloom tomato and cucumber salad with pickled
torpedo onions, Chapel Hill Creamery feta and borage flowers Crispy North Carolina
butterfish with preserved
lemon and olive brown butter Spit-roasted leg of lamb with
braised gigante beans and slow cooked tomatoes, salt-cured capers
and fresh oregano Blue Ridge Mountain cherries and peaches in a honey-wine bath with cherry stone ice cream producers: Ayrshire Farm, Aimless Farm, Bracken Brae
Farm,
Chapel Hill
Creamery, Eco Farm, Ferguson Farm, Fickle Creek
Farm, Lee’s Bees, Levering
Orchards, Maple View Dairy, Peregrine Farm, Rainbow Meadow Farms, Tom Robinson
Seafood Take 40 West to exit 270 for 15-501 South towards Chapel Hill. After a couple of miles when 15-501 splits off to the left - stay to the RIGHT and follow signs to FRANKLIN STREET. Follow Franklin St. up the hill into town (about 3 miles), eventually crossing over Columbia Street at the intersection in the center of town. Go through one more light and begin to look for
Lantern on the
left after passing McDonald's. We are located at 423 West Franklin Street, directly across the street from Elaine's, the West End Wine Bar, and the Cavern.Valet Parking Now Available Complimentary valet parking is now available across the street from Lantern Monday-Saturday from 5:30 - 11pm. We offer reservations for parties of any size every night.Complimentary valet parking is available just across the street.Reservations at Lantern Free Valet Parking Current specials may include: Availability is limited, so please call us if you'd like to check on specials for a specific night Soup Vietnamese shrimp and rice soup with black pepper and local peagreens Appetizers Thai marinanted minced local pork in lettuce cups with
lemongrass, chiles and toasted
rice  Lantern spicy seafood salad- diver scallop, NC shrimp & fresh squid  with roasted chiles and lemongrass  Crispy Cane Creek Farm pork belly with 5-spice and pickled pumpkin EntreeClaypot caramelized NC catfish with chiles, ginger, garlic, watercress and jasmine rice join the mailing list   Please join us in celebrating the Year of the Ox at our annual Lantern Festival from Monday,
February 9 through next Thursday, February 12.  On these four nights, in addition to our regular menu, we will offer a special 4-course menu featuring a grass-fed Jersey steer from Chapel Hill Creamery.  More details soon! What is the Lantern Festival? In China, the Lantern Festival begins on the eve of the first full moon of the New Year and is celebrated with competitive pageantry: elaborate lantern displays, yangge dancing, Buddha worship, and ceremonial riddle solving. In Chapel Hill, we mark the occasion every year with tacky paper lanterns and a menu of dishes never before seen at Lantern featuring local ingredients. Directions:      Map A shows Hwy 40 (exit 261) or Hwy 85 (exit 164)          
                         Map B is a close up of downtown
Hillsborough.  Hwy 70/86
                         in Map B is Churton Street.  The red dot designates
               
                         Panciuto (110 S. Churton).  We are directly across from the                             Historic Courthouse. Map A Chippendale Tilt Top Tea Table, PA, 18th c., SOLD: $27,500. Alfred
Hutty (SC, 1877-1954), "Calhoun Street," watercolor on Bainbridge board, SOLD: $30,000. Important NC Pottery Webster School Two Gallon Storage Jar, SOLD: $38,500. NC Paint Decorated Rowan Co. Blanket Chest. SOLD: $34,500. December 6, 2008 George Inness Jr. (NY,
1854-1920), Pastoral Landscape SOLD:$17,600. Three Cylinder Vases, Guatemala. Today's sophisticated, ingredient-driven seafood restaurants—from a Maine-style
lobster shack to a high-end shrine to seafood—have us hooked. Keywords: America's
Foodiest Small Town Imagine a place where foodies not only have a favorite chef, but also a favorite farmer; a place where the distance between the organic farm and the award-winning restaurant is mere miles; a place where a sustainable future is
foreseeable. It's all a
reality in Durham-Chapel Hill. Keywords: This lovely salad from
Panciuto restaurant in Hillsborough, N.C., features figs two ways. DAILY PREMIER SALAD $7.95 – A different salad featured each day. Choices include Tarragon
Chicken, Shrimp, Egg Salad, & more. Presented on a bed of organic mixed greens with fresh vegetables. ASIAN CHICKEN SALAD $7.95 – Grilled chicken, almonds, green onions, red peppers & water chestnuts on mixed
greens. Topped with Sesame Soy Dressing. SEASONAL FRUIT & CHEESE PLATE $7.95 – Enjoy this elegant plate of rich premium cheeses &
mouth-watering fresh fruit. Local artisan products featured
based on availability. Hot                                               1800 Slab,
Plum Creek area. SOLD:$7,810. Pair of Estate Gates, custom made predominately of worked steel flat brass, SOLD: $11,550. Monumental Sterling Silver Vase by J. E. Caldwell & Co, Philadelphia, SOLD: $2,300. Southern Cellaret on Stand, Chesterfield Co. VA, c. 1800 SOLD:$20,900 Elliott Daingerfield (NC/NY, 1859-1932), Venice, oil on canvas, signed lower left "Elliott Daingerfield," SOLD: $73,000.  Since our menu depends on what is available, it evolves throughout the year.  The sample menu should give you an idea of the food we serve. Sample Menu First Course Baby greens with
toasted pecans, pecorino noci, shaved chiogga beets, fennel and
parchment bread in
apple vinaigrette Beef tenderloin carpaccio with horseradish cream, white beans and arugula in olive oil Cheese plate:  "Silk Hope" goat cheese with green tomato preserves, Black pepper Il Duca with pear and honey, Paesano with pickled beet and olive oil Grilled bruschetta with sunny side up egg, shaved prosciutto, arugula and parmesan Butternut
squash ravioli with wilted greens, toasted pumpkin seeds, pumpkin oil and parmeggiano e burro Cider glazed pork shank with cabbage risotto Spaghetti alla carbonara:  pasta with house-cured pancetta, garlic wilted spinach, breadcrumbs and parmesan egg sauce Pasta pirata:  tagliolini with crab, calamari, shrimp, and arame in spicy tomato sauce Bollito Misto:  Sliced steak with boiled potatoes, little carrots, roasted onions, pork belly, braised chicken, parmesan and herbs in meat broth Third Course Warm hazelnut cake with chocolate ganache and banana ice cream Bonet:  baked custard with crushed amaretti, caramel and poached pear Pumpkin ricotta cheesecake with maple syrup and cookie crisp Potted chocolate with hazelnut
biscotti and soft whipped cream Open:              Wednesday
through Saturday 5:30
pm. to 9 p.m. Chef/Owner:   Aaron Vandemark Our
Food:       Italian
and Southern inspired meals Prices:            Appetizers - $9-12, Entrees - $21-$28, Desserts - $7-8 To Drink:        Wine, Beer, and Limited Mixed Beverages Corking:          Corking fee of $20 for those bringing their own wine Smoking:         No smoking permitted Payment:         Cash, Credit, or Debit Card (Visa and Mastercard only) Reservations:  Strongly suggested for weekends Dress
Code:    From business casual to as nice as you want ADA:              Built in 2006, Panciuto is fully compliant and accommodating North Carolina Wildlife Resources Commission - Wildlife Species and Habitat Information Related pages : Visit and discover its unspoiled beauty as well as the flora and fauna of the area. New River State Park New River State Park : Provides
information about
the natural history of the and the plants and animals that live there. Stevens Nature Center at Hemlock Bluffs Hemlocks Bluff Nature Preserve : One of the
state's most rugged parks, offers a number of
activities. Rangers are available to teach students about the mountain watershed and the importance of water stewardship. South Mountains State Park T he locavore movement, a new trend that advocates eating food from local farms is not only promoting good food but new scholarship and teaching. Master of Arts in Liberal Studies (MALS) class, "What's for Dinner: Culture and Agriculture," sat down
around the conference table at the MALS office on Campus Drive for dinner and
discussion on the ethical and practical implications of sustaining small local farmers.Last month, 14 students in the - North Carolina Seafood Dinner - 1st Annual "The Chicken & the Egg" featuring Fickle
Creek Farm   |      - Two local American cheese-making pioneers, Flo Hawley and Portia McKnight of showcased their farmstead cheeses, as well as their whey-fed pigs with a six-course menu inspired by the Italian Piedmont and paired with from the
same region. We also served from nearby farms and fresh direct
from Alba. Throughout the evening, Hawley and McKnight discussed their approach to farming, their cheeses and long-term goals. Orange County Recreation & Parks Department, (919) 245-2660. Birdhouses on Parade,
Chapel Hill. The Carolina Inn, (919) 933-2001. Basketball
Championships, campus, Chapel Hill. North Carolina High School Athletic
Association, (919) 962-2345. NCHSAAUNC April Cool Jazz
Festival, Hillsborough. Orange
County Recreation
& Parks Department, (919) 245-2660. Outdoor Family Pops Concert,
Hillsborough. Alliance for Historic Hillsborough, (919) 732-7741. Piedmont Farm Tour, Countywide. Carolina Farm Stewardship Association, (919) 542-2402. Spring Garden Tour, Chapel Hill (biennial in even-numbered years). Chapel Hill Garden
Club, (919) 962-0522. May Bob Gibbon’s Basketball Tournament, campus, Chapel Hill. Bob Gibbons, (828) 758-5827. Carrboro Day, Carrboro Recreation & Parks Department, (919) 918-7364. Greek
Festival, Chapel Hill. Greek
Orthodox Church of St. Barbara, (919) 682-1414. Nutrient Cycling
Biodiversity and natural ecosystem processes are conserved through The farm
benefits through enhanced beauty and by maintaining trees that are good for honey production, shading our chickens and livestock, eliminating erosion, and minimizing our need for grid power to heat or cool
our home. Pictured is sourwood - a favorite tree of bees. Agroforestry. The farm is located in the upper reaches of the Cane Creek Reservoir watershed and is a
focus on the farm. We take care to eliminate erosion and animal
waste
run-off. This is our farm pond.Water Conservation Carrboro
Recreation & Parks
Department, (919) 918-7364. Old-Fashioned Celebration and Band Concert, Chapel Hill. Preservation Society of Chapel Hill, (919) 942-7818. Parade, Caldwell. Community of Caldwell, (919) 732-2231. Southern Open Tennis Tournament, Chapel Hill. Chapel Hill Tennis Club, (919) 929-5248. August 9 – Bike Fest: The Rural Heritage Tour, Hillsborough. Carolina Tarwheels Bicycle Club, (919) 383-9722. September 27 – Cedar Grove Bluegrass Festival, Cedar Grove Park. Orange County Recreation & Parks Department, (919) 245-2660. 27 – Celebration of the
Automobile Car Show,
Historic Occoneechee Orange Speedway, Hillsborough, (919) 604-2292. 28 – Music Festival, Carrboro. Carrboro Recreation & Parks Department, (919) 918-7307. October 5 – Festifall Street Fair, Chapel Hill. Chapel Hill Parks & Recreation Department, (919) 968-2784.
12
– University Day, Chapel Hill. For example, we have purchased all our livestock within 30 miles of the farm, our layer feed is milled in Durham, and our most distant point of sales is 25 miles from the farm.Local Economy     As a holistic system, we focus on in our landscape so that the beings which were here first, from micro-organisms to large mammals, have the best chance of
continuing in a balanced ecosystem.
This is the scarlet hibiscus, one of our favorite southeast natives.Native Plants Salmon and crab cakes with light lemon sauce ,   homemade chicken noodle soupFriday: Plus: Organic vegetables this week are: red and white sweet potatoes, Yukon gold potatoes, butternut squash, carrots, fickle creek eggs, Nooherooka natural beef , fickle creek pork, rainbow meadows sausages and chicken   - Individual Carrot Cakes, Chocolate Cream Pie, Pumpkin Cheese Cake, Peanut Butter CookiesMonday - Toffee-Nut Bars, Chocolate Crinkle Cookies, Cranberry
Orange Bread,  Vegan Apricot Jam BarsTuesday Down the street, The ArtsCenter is one-stop-shopping for anything about the arts. Next-door is the Cat's Cradle, the
institution that helped the area earn its designation as the "next Seattle" when it comes to the music scene. 5. Historic Hillsborough Hillsborough, just fifteen miles from Chapel Hill, has more than 100 late 18th century and early 19th
century buildings
including the beautifully restored Ayr Mount Historic
Site (c.1815); the Old County Courthouse (1844), cited by the Library of Congress as one of the finest Greek Revival structures; and the Orange County Historical Museum. Hillsborough was
the scene of many important events during the Revolutionary and Civil
War periods, and
home to a signer of the Declaration of Independence. Directions to
Fickle Creek Farm From West via Interstate 40 east / 85 north Take exit 157 - Buckhorn Road. Turn right at top of exit ramp going south on Buckhorn Road. Go 4.5 miles. Look for black mailbox 4122 on right. Opposite mailbox turn left into
gravel drive. Bear
left at first fork. Bear right at second fork. Take exit 160 - Efland. Turn left at bottom of exit ramp going south on Mt Willing Road. Go 3.8 miles. At stop sign,
turn left onto Buckhorn Road. Italian food goes
southern in this juicy pork roast from Piedmont restaurant in Durham, N.C. Keywords: This slightly salty, just-a-little-spicy pie from Scratch bakery in Durham, N.C., shows North Carolina peanuts off to their best advantage. Keywords: In North Carolina, the coleslaw is tangy and not too sweet, with no mayonnaise in sight. Keywords: Subscription Questions s Take 5 newsletterBon Appétit' Sign up for s Take 5 newsletter and you'll receive our weekly recommendations for the most important things to cook, buy, read, watch, and do.Bon Appétit' Frerichs, 1829-1905, American,NY/NC
artist SOLD: $9,075. John F. Herring, Jr. (Br., 1820-1907),
SOLD: $56,000. Brilliant Edwardian Paint Decorated Satinwood
Display SOLD:$11,000. Southern Plantation Tester Bed, ca. 1840s SOLD: $4,000. William Thornley (Br. 1857-1898), Two Pictures, SOLD: $5,500. J. J. Enwright (NY, 1911-2001), New England Dock, SOLD: $4,370 Pair of Tiffany & Co. Sterling Silver
Compotes, SOLD: $1092. An explanation of trinities  the
foundations of world cuisines will be covered. You may bring your 8 full-tang chefs knife to class or use one of ours. Each seminar will cover a selection of produce. We will also cover some basic garnishing techniques. 3 Hours.KNIFE SKILLS SEMINAR Saturday, January 24, 2009 at 9am $55(H) (P) Learn how to make a delicious meal using fresh produce and everyday pantry items. Chicken-Vegetable Soup; Pasta Primavera with Sausage; Potato Gratin; Fruit Cobbler. 1.5 Hours.EVERYDAY COOKING Saturday, January 24, 2009 at 12:30 $25 3401-B Forrest
Ave Efland, NC 27243 (919) 732-5441 or Toll-Free: (877) 732-5441
Auctioneer: LB Daniel NCAL 6149 Catered food & drinks at
every auction! CLIMATE-CONTROLLED BUILDING 7% N.C. State Sales Tax will be charged unless you have a Sales Tax ID on file. We accept MasterCard, VISA, American Express, and Discover.  Local and sustainable are not terms reserved only for special dinner events at
Panciuto, but are the guiding principles used every evening in
every meal.  I think you will find the menu at Panciuto is recognizably Italian with a measure of Southern inflection.  The intimate scale of our restaurant and our relatively small menu allows us to give each and every dish the proper quality and attention the food and our guests deserve. The Triangle cities offer a total of sixteen, two and four year colleges/universities
(including the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
Duke University and North Carolina
State University), and two technical community colleges. Located at two of the major universities, both UNC Hospitals and Duke University Medical Center have top-notch medical facilities and are easily accessible from any part of the Triangle. UNC Chapel Hill offers residents of the area many continuing education opportunities through their , and their weekend seminars.Universities Lifelong Learning Program Adventures in Ideas The Triangle area is home to some of the finest healthcare facilities in the country. The region's reputation for
cutting edge medical technology is due, in part, to the proximity of  major universities specializing in medical education.