Systems Biology at Pacific Northwest National
Laboratory
Systems biology researchers at Pacific
Northwest
National
Laboratory (PNNL)
focus on
understanding gene and protein networks involved in individual cell signaling, communication between cells in communities, and cellular
metabolic
pathways. Our systems biology research program is primarily driven by the , a program. Biomolecular Sciences Initiative Laboratory R&D Talented Multidisciplinary Teams The integrated
talents of our multidisciplinary
research teams
lend strength to our systems biology research. Our biologists,
microscopy experts, and
proteomicists study
the thousands of proteins and/or other cellular components, which are regulated through variations in their location, their activity, and their state of modification. This intermediate Majorana experiment
will consist of ~100 kg of Ge
in the form of
high-resolution intrinsic germanium
detectors
located deep underground within a low-background shielding environment. Observation of a sharp peak at the ββ endpoint will quantify the 0νββ half-life and thus the effective Majorana mass of the electron
neutrino.76 Please see the or recent for more details. overview talk white paper Newsroom for Dr. Ron Brodzinski. Memorial under development which may benefit Majorana! (Hull et al, 28th Seismic
Research Review: Ground-Based Nuclear Explosion Monitoring Technologies, 2006, also PNNL-SA-52058) New detector technology Vol. 4 No. 3Current
Issue: Volume 4, Issue 3 November 17,
2008 Editor's Note Climate change could have dramatic consequences
for Northwest energy sources,
agriculture,
forestry, business interests, and the
environment.   With 100 experts dedicated solely to atmospheric
science and
climate change, Pacific Northwest National
Laboratory
(PNNL) is providing a
better understanding of this complex topic. Whether in the air, on mountains and glaciers; in computer laboratories, speaking to Congressional committees, or collaborating with the worldwide science
community, PNNL is bringing objective, valuable climate insights to decision makers. The national multiprogram laboratories are: Argonne National Laboratory Argonne, IL Brookhaven National Laboratory
Upton, NY Idaho
National
Laboratory Idaho Falls, ID Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory Berkeley, CA Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Livermore, CA Los Alamos National Laboratory Los Alamos, NM Oak Ridge National
Laboratory
Oak Ridge, TN Pacific Northwest
National
Laboratory
Richland, WA Sandia National Laboratories Albuquerque, NM Laboratory News PNNL has a who is authorized to receive and address complaints and inquiries concerning acts, omissions and
alleged
improprieties from licensees and others in a commercialization
partnership
. The Ombudsman system has been established for conflict resolution if the relationship between Battelle and a potential licensee or business
partner
becomes
strained. The Ombudsman is an
impartial party who may
investigate
the alleged improprieties and take appropriate action to aid in the resolution of the issues. Today, we are assessing the vulnerability of critical infrastructures across the nation and
teaming with
others
to ensure our air
and seaports are
protected from the threat of
terrorist attacks. We are training
border
enforcement officials worldwide to thwart the smuggling of chemical,
biological or nuclear materials. We're
also instructing
emergency first responders in every country that houses
a U.S.
embassy. Whether it's discussing innovative methods to secure commerce in the Pacific Northwest and
across the nation or 21st century
protections
for international borders, our researchers look forward to sharing
with you their role in protecting our homeland. Electronics are routinely required to bring many of our sensor and measurement system concepts into practical applications and to the functional requirements of our clients. In many cases, this may build on PNNL-developed sensors or measurement ideas. However, it also
includes the incorporation of
commercial sensors and measurement
instruments or subsystems into
integrated
systems to meet client requirements. We also develop and
deliver
specialized electronics designed to meet specific client requirements. System Integration Integrated
systems are often
required for applications that involve robust measurement methods,
automated data acquisition, and effective process
monitoring
and control. We routinely perform system integration functions to ensure that complex systems are designed, effectively reviewed at the design
stage,
fabricated and assembled, tested and validated, and
delivered to the
client. The Academy's goal was to
enhance the teachers' scientific literacy and deepen their understanding of the nature of science.
This project was made possible with funds from the U.S. DOE Office of Science, Office of Workforce
Development for Teachers and Scientists. During the three-year program, teachers developed lesson enhancements aligned with the National Science Education Standards and Washington State Essential Academic
Learning Requirements to fill gaps
in the existing
curricular materials. Armed with a "need to know" about earth and environmental science, the teacher leaders set out to increase their own understanding of earthquakes, volcanoes, fossils and energy flow through natural systems. Welcome to the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory publications page. You can use this page
to find citations to materials
published since 1998 by
PNNL staff or by
external researchers using PNNL
facilities. The latter are denoted by a logo preceding the citation. Full text copies
of many PNNL formal
reports
are
available from this page either as
PDF or HTML files.  Most of the information was in textual form, but in different styles, for various purposes that could not be reliably processed for information content. Researchers at Pacific
Northwest National
Laboratory began to explore
whether a
computer program could be developed to quickly and automatically convey the thematic content of large sets of unformatted text documents. The goal was to provide technology that enables analysts to
spend quality time doing real information exploration by shifting workload from processing data to analysis. If you do not find what you are looking for, contact the by or telephone at
(509) 372-7430. Hanford Technical
Library email Publications You must enter at least 2 characters in
any
field to perform a valid search.
Author For best success, search on the author's last name followed by the author's initials with punctuation as follows: "Jones"; "Jones,
E"; "Jones, EG". Date Published
Publications are
available from
1998 through the present year. Title
search for any words in the title of
a journal article, formal report,
book, or book chapter being careful
to include punctuation.
Furthermore, catalyst
technologies have an integral part in some of our most
important pollution control and environmental cleanup processes,
including
the reduction of harmful automobile
emissions by catalytic converters. Because of its substantial impact on the global economy, catalysis remains an active and vital area of
research and development (R&D),
with many scientific and engineering
journals and conferences devoted to discussion of the latest results. We are defining the mechanisms by
which Gram-negative, metal-reducing bacteria export contaminant nanoparticles from the periplasm and
studying the subsequent biogeochemical behavior of the externalized
nanoparticles. Biogeochemical Processes Controlling Microbial
Reductive Precipitation of Radionuclides – Central to the NABIR goal to develop the scientific basis for radioactive groundwater contaminant remediation is the fundamental understanding of
microorganisms with dissimilatory
metal-reducing
activity.
Hybrid computing
architectures can
address these
requirements
by complementing
traditional general-purpose
architectures
with hardware accelerators (e.g.,
Field-Programmable Gate Arrays, graphics processors, IBM Cell processor, or vector or math
coprocessors). These hardware accelerators are specialized to expedite the execution of important components of data intensive applications, which, for general-purpose computers, would
represent
a bottleneck. To harness the power of the hybrid architectures, PNNL is making investments in the software development tools and the methodologies used to deal with the heterogeneous nature of the hardware. Projects that support this R&D capability: Helens to the fossil beds of the John Day, the teacher leaders learned
first-hand as they deepened their
geoscience and environmental science content knowledge under the mentorship of the PNNL scientists, Janelle Downs, Shannon Goodwin, Duane
Horton and Steve Reidel. The and Lessons were developed by: Earth
Changes Fossil & , Kennewick School District & , Sunnyside School District , Art and Science Educator , PNNL , Walla Walla School DistrictGeorgia BoatmanVicki Mitchell We strive to understand the business
opportunities for new inventions so that they can become a useful product or service. An excellent example of successful technology transfer is the life-saving deployment of our millimeter wave technology
that
is licensed for personnel security screening applications. The systems are used to screen for concealed weapons or explosives. The same basic technology is also licensed into the apparel industry in applications for custom fitting clothing for consumers. Review our technology portfolios on the website to see if PNNL has
the
base technology you need. Our core science strengths—energy, environmental, fundamental, information
technology
and
national security—result in new IP, so check back frequently to see what's new at PNNL. Proteins outside of the core proteome are responsible for the lifestyle-specific differences of individual bacterial species. Environmental Molecular Sciences Laboratory Pelagibacter ubiqueYersinia pestis Commonalities in the genome
indicate shared ancestry, and proteomics verifies the expression of those genes. The team verified the expression of a core set of genes that defines bacterial life and designed an approach that can be
used to
compare the lifestyles of selected
bacteria.  A cooperative venture among government and
world-class
nanoscience and microtechnology R&D
institutions
and industry in the Northwest, ONAMI was created to
cultivate research and commercialization to advance Oregon's leading economic sector and expand the benefits of technology innovation to
traditional
and natural resource industries. ONAMI’s community of world-class industry, academic and federal research institutions in the Pacific Northwest forms a vibrant network of nanoscience and microtechnology
expertise that is moving nanoscience and microtechnology innovations from basic research through to
commercialization. 
ONAMI
partners Oregon State University, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL), Portland State University, and the University of Oregon (UO).
While simplified tools are typically based on full-load
efficiencies and
full-load equivalent operating hours,
the estimators account for local climate and partial-load, as well as
full-load efficiencies. The cost
estimators assist decision-making regarding the purchase or replacement of packaged rooftop air
conditioning equipment and room air conditioners,
by estimating a product´s lifetime energy cost savings at various efficiency levels. Other key features include the following: The cost
estimators are
fully web-based . The menu-driven
format is easy to learn and use. The tools quickly
estimate life cycle
cost, simple payback, return on
investment, and
savings-to-investment ratio. They
also will outline some steps individuals can take to protect themselves and their families. Global Security—Preventing nuclear proliferation What are the U.S., the Northwest and PNNL doing to prevent nuclear proliferation? Laboratory speakers candidly address the question of global security in the 21st century in a
presentation focusing on U.S. efforts to foster
nuclear
nonproliferation
worldwide. For example PNNL researchers participate in U.S. Department of Energy Office of Science
laboratory,
Pacific
Northwest National Laboratory is part
of that quest, providing
science-based solutions to high-priority challenges in national security, energy and the environment. Pacific Northwest National Laboratory is
currently hiring the best and
brightest scientists and engineers
to help
solve these challenges. We are seeking candidates for our Post Graduate employment classifications (Post Doctoral, Post Master, Post Bachelors), student employment classifications
(Undergraduate/Graduate
Interns), as well as entry level research staff. Our
4,200 researchers and staff are building the scientific foundation and creating the technologies necessary to advance our fundamental
understanding of complex chemical, physical and biological systems. The results obtained with the cost estimators will be useful to home owners, facility managers, financial officers, energy management professionals, air conditioning contractors, and other decision makers interested in maximizing both energy-efficiency and
cost-effectiveness
of cooling
system investments. The tools provide energy and cost estimates,
suitable
for comparison purposes. They were
not designed to replace
building load simulating software for heating and cooling systems design. Due to the dynamic nature of building heating and cooling, actual energy use will vary depending on the application. Data Intensive
Computing (DIC) is concerned with capturing, managing, analyzing, and understanding
data at volumes and rates that push
the frontiers of current technologies. Addressing the demands of ever-growing data volume and complexity requires epochal advances in software, hardware, and algorithm development. Effective solution
technologies
must also scale to handle the
amplified data rates and simultaneously accelerate timely, effective analysis results. PNNL's approach
to DIC is focused on three key research areas: hybrid
hardware architectures, software architectures, and analytic algorithms. The development bubble chart represents the range of PNNL capabilities and activities and covers the span from
underlying
science to the
engineering developments required
to deliver devices, instruments,
and systems. Staff working in the
application environment (i.e.,
delivering engineered
solutions)
are most
commonly exposed to
the client´s
upcoming
sensor needs and interests. At the same time, the existence of an integrated technology development team facilitates the transfer of information to staff working on the development or improvement of
appropriate sensing
mechanisms and devices. Contact: Media Relations, (509) 375-3776 The national laboratory system The origins of the nine multiprogram national
laboratories date
back to the Manhattan
Project and the years immediately following World War
II. During this era, the Atomic Energy Commission
(DOE's predecessor) established a
system of national laboratories to
augment
America's existing academic and
industrial research infrastructure. Today, the nine multiprogram labs possess many of the world's top scientists and engineers, as well as
superior
laboratories and equipment. A large percentage of Nobel laureates and R&D 100 Award winners perform or
have performed their research at America's national laboratories. The technical networks nurture communication and encourage collaboration across organizational and geographic
boundaries,
facilitating the sharing of information on the deployment of state-of-the-art tools, methods, and
equipment.
Technical networks also facilitate the alignment of Battelle-wide capabilities with the business strategies of our organizations and their businesses. In addition, technical networks
provide a
holistic approach to stewardship for Battelle's diverse
intellectual assets. It is in the mixed layer and free troposphere that most chemical reactions, gas-to-particle transformations, cloud
processes, and long range transport of pollutants occur. The Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL) operates the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) Research Aircraft Facility (RAF) to serve atmospheric
scientists at DOE and other
federal, state, and industrial laboratories in carrying out airborne research in these areas. This
facility is dedicated to the fulfillment of important DOE and national goals related to understanding atmospheric processes as they relate to the DOE's environmental missions and the global environment. A
flexible reimbursement
plan, which allows employees to set aside pre-tax dollars for
qualified health and dependent care expenses Access to an Employee Assistance Program (EAP), which
offers free, confidential, professional counseling services and information referral to employees and their immediate families, including domestic partners/significant others A variety of paid and unpaid time off and leave of absence opportunities for all qualified employees, including medical and family care leave, short
and
long-term disability leave, personal leave,
bereavement leave, military leave, and
educational leave Tuition assistance for career-related courses *Some of these benefits may not apply to Hourly employees or Student Educational Interns. The Economic Development Office received honorable
mention for its Technology Assistance Program in an international economic development program competition sponsored by the International
Economic Development
Council. EDO also leads the Laboratory's involvement in the development of the Tri-Cities Research District, a 1,600-acre area surrounding PNNL's campus planned to attract technology
businesses to the area. From
local to global, the complex interactions between human activities and their effects on the environment play a pivotal role in energy, environmental, and economic security. With the new landscape of
terrorist
threats at home and abroad; with the need to sustain the critical balance between our activities and the environment; we are charting new environmental solutions every day. Environmental Technology The
Computational
and Information Sciences Directorate
develops and deploys leading-edge computing and scientific capabilities to advance the next generation of discovery in science, national security, energy, and the environment. Contacts Whats next,
starts here The is an emerging center for clean technology invention and advancement in the Pacific Northwest. Designated by Washingtons
Governor as an
Innovation
Partnership Zone, the Tri-Cities
Research District is a 1,600-acre
mixed-use area located
along the Columbia
River in Richland, Washington composed
of approximately
3.4 million square feet of office, laboratory, and light manufacturing space. The TCRD is fast becoming recognized as a place where people with ideas create technologies that solve problems and produce commercial value, fueling the regions economic growth. For additional staff awards, see our page. Awards and Honors
Archive
Patents In fiscal year 2008, PNNL received 33 U.S. and 30 foreign patents. Since 1965, PNNL has received a total of 1,664 U.S. and foreign patents. Employment, Payroll and Taxes Staff
employment at the end of FY 2008
was 4,199. The gross payroll for
the year was approximately $342
million.
Employer-paid benefits totaled $102 million and various state and federal payroll taxes paid by the Laboratory amounted to more than $25.9
million. As an Employer of Choice we offer you*: Market competitive,
pay-for-performance
compensation program A
multi-faceted Rewards
and Recognition
program, based on individual and team performance
Comprehensive life
insurance, healthcare,
vision, and
dental coverage for all employees and their dependents Beginning two weeks of paid vacation per
year, with
the opportunity to accrue up to a
maximum of five weeks Ten holidays per calendar year, including two personal floating holidays Personal sick time for care of immediate
family, including domestic partners