Howard Hughes, meanwhile, packed
enough
drama into his 70 years for several lifetimes, leaving abundant biographical material for any director to sink his teeth into. Scosese has bitten down hard. If there's one thing he understands, it's obsession; witness the epic, 20-odd-years battle to make 'Gangs of New York' or the self-sabotaging manias of his on-screen alter-ego De Niro in 'New York, New York' and 'The King of Comedy'. A stay at the Brewster House is the perfect spot to celebrate any of the many Special Occasions in your life. We look forward to assisting you with the details, such as dinner reservations, flowers, chocolates, balloons, gift baskets, whatever you require to make your special
occasion even more special! They are available in amounts of $50 and up,
and do not
expire.Christmas,
Birthday, Anniversary, Valentines Day, Mother's Day, any occasion that requires something special! A Gift Certificate to Brewster House is always the perfect choice! The quaint and lovely village of Cazenovia, which was founded in 1793, is a short walk from the Inn. Its attractive shops make browsing a leisurely adventure. Visitors can also tour Lorenzo, the magnificent estate of the founder of Cazenovia, John Lincklaen, picnic at the spectacular Chittenango Falls, and walk the beautiful grounds surrounding Cazenovia College. I look forward to sharing with you the beauty and rich history of Cazenovia and The Brewster Inn. The Brewster Inn offers gourmet dining in
three candlelit rooms adorned with silver and crystal. An expertly trained staff assists you with selections from our award-winning wine
list, the perfect complement to a supurb menu. A 40 Passenger Clipper ship preparing to depart from PAN AMERICAN Terminal,
Miami, (florida) " All aboard for South
America", linen, pub:Curteich, M80/6A-H2369, unused (airport/fl) Australia - Avalon Beach, Sydney, (ai), #37624, Pan American Airways Makes the going great to Australia, Logo on back, unused, (au) Indian Feather dancers exhibit their colorful costumes in Ouxoco City, MEXICO, two hours by air from Mexico City--MW, Litho in USA LAD A674-53, unused, chrome (mx) Portugal - The Beach at Estroil, chrome, unused, (ai) (portugal) PAN AM Mexico, chrome, no#, (ai), unused (mx) Pan
American World Airways, baby beef and wine to a King's taste: Buenos Aire's many excellent restaurants--MW,linen, adv, pub:Litho, MWOB (argentina) PAN AM Germany, adv, (4 Fold out cards) See back (germany) ADV SPAIN-Alcazar Castle--MW PAN AMERICAN, chrome, (ai), MWOB, unused (spain) PAN AMERICAN - ADV Italy-The Village of Tai in the Italian Dolomites--MW, chrome, (ai),
unused, MWOB (italy) Same as PAN15, pmkd1962 Pan American, ADV MEXICO - Acapulco, chrome, (ai), unused (mx) PAN AMERICAN, ADV THAILAND, The Temple of the Emerald Buddha in Bangkok,
chrome, (ai), unused (thialand) ADV, Pan American World Airways, La Citadelle, HAITI, chrome, pmkd195, pub:Litho (haiti) Same as PAN18, unused ADV, PAN AM, NEW ZEALAND-Milford Sound, South Island, chrome, (ai) (nz) ADV, PAN AM, FRANCE-Calvi on the Island of Corsica, chrome, (ai) (fr) ADV,
Same as PAN20, WOB PAN AM, ADV
ITALY-The Roman Forum, chrome, (ai),
unused (italy) PAN AM, ADV TAHITI, Paopao Bay, Known as Cook's Bay, at Moorea, chrome, (ai), unused (tahiti) PAN AM, ADV JAPAN-Samboin Temple Gardens in Kyoto, PAN AM, chrome, (ai), unused (jp) PAN AM, ADV INDIA-The Taj Mahal at Agra, chrome, (ai), unused (tbt) Pan Am, ADV Gauchas and Girls
Perorm Folk Dances--MW, Argentina chrome, pub:litho, unused, MWOB (arg) PAN AM, ADV BERMUDA-A Secluded Cove on the Island, chrome, (ai), unused (bermuda) PAN AM, ADV Mayan Pyramids of Chichen Itza, Yucatan--MW, Mexico, (ai), unused (mx) First of Pan American airways S 40 Clippers of 1931, reprinted 1991 by Post Card Collectors Club of AFA--MW, unused First of Pan American Airways S-40 Clippers of 1931, reprinted 1991 by Post card Collectors Club of ATA--MW, unused PAA's
Super-6
Clipper,
chrome, pub:Litho A656-55, MWOB, unused Silvertone PAN AM, ADV - Brazil - Rio de Janeiro's famous Sugarloaf Mountain, chrome, (ai), unused (brazil) PAN AM, ADV - The Caribbean, One of
Jamaica's many Beaches, chrome, (ai), unused (jamaica PAN AM, ADV - England - The
Village
of Wendon's Ambro Essex, near London, chrome, (ai), unused (england) PAN AM, ADV - Hong Kong - The Harbor, chrome, (ai), unused (hk) 1008 **chrome, (ai), unused (iran) PAN AM, ADV - Bushy-haired, native Fijian Policeman guards government house--MW, FIJI, chrome, (ai), unused (fiji) JAPAN -- the historic castle adds charm to the City of Hirosaka, norht of Tokyo--MW, chrome, unused, (ai), (japan) JERUSALEM -ADV, PAN AM, chrome, (ai), MWOB, unused (jerusalem) PAN AM, Beauty poses for Moview shot in gay Fiesta costume on an ancient Spanish cathedral wall in Old Panama, One of the many interesting spots served by the Flying Clippers, linen, pmkd-Argentina,
Lad-PA-431-200m-48, WOF
(Panama)
JAPAN--ME,
- Pan
American
World Airways, chrome, (ai), MWOB, unused (jp) Pan American
Double-Decker Super Stratoclipper, chrome, pub:(ai), 762-5-56-1082, MWOB, unused Copyright:Walt's Postcards This content requires the Macromedia Flash Player. Get Flash The Brewster Inn is on the National Register of Historic Places and is a former Maine Governor and Government Senators family home. A portrayal of this family is seen in the Golden Globe award winning movie "" starring Leonardo De Caprio (as Howard Hughes) and Alan Alda (as senator Ralph Owen Brewster). We are proud to be part of such fascinating history! They started to fly mail and passengers domestically in Iceland, mostly with seaplanes. In 1947 Loftleidir bought their first intercontinental
Airliners being a surplus Douglas C-54A received from the USAF. Loftleidir started to offer low fares over the Atlantic, undercutting IATA (International Air Transport Association) prices. It must be sad that Loftleidir is the first carrier to introduce low fares over the Atlantic,
if not
the first
low fare carrier in the World. The business grew fast and Loftleidirs two
C-54A's were in no way able to meet the demand.
Alphabetical
List of Schools Academics -- Overall Along with Sports, Cost
and Quality of Life, Academics is one of the four major categories used to compare the schools.In order to get an overall comparison, the schools are compared on the following sub-categories: SAT scores (highest to lowest) Overall number of National Merit Scholars Number of National Merit Scholars per student Percentage of students who were in their top 10% of their high scool class Percentage of applicants accepted (lowest to highest) Number of/span>faculty awards Number of National Academy Members among the faculty Number of National Academy Members
among the faculty per student Seeking an aircraft that
would perform better than
TWA's
fleet of , Hughes approached Boeing's competitor, . Hughes had a
good relationship with Lockheed since they had built the aircraft he
used in his record flight
around the world in 1938. Lockheed agreed to Hughes' request that the new aircraft be built in secrecy. The result was the revolutionary and TWA purchased the first 40 of the new airliners off the production line. TWA Boeing 307 Stratoliners Lockheed Constellation Albans to the southwest, Ripley and
Cambridge
to the west,
and Parkman to the northwest. The smaller towns in the
area have long depended on Dexter for employment and
accessibility
to commerce.Dexter's Economy Dexter's labor force has predominately been devoted to the manufacture of shoes and machinery,
with craftsmen and machine
operators being the more common occupations. All Rights Reserved.   AKA {Two Arabian Nights} (1927) American B&W : Feature film Directed by Lewis MilestoneTwo Arabian Knights Cast:
[Private W. Daingerfield Phelps III], [Mirza / Anis Bin Adham], Louis Wolheim [Sergeant Peter O’Gaffney], Ian Keith [Shevket], Michael Vavitch [the Emir of Jaffa], M. Visaroff (Michael
Visaroff) [the ship captain], Boris Karloff [the purser], DeWitt Jennings [American consul], Nicholas Dunaev [Mirza’s man servant], Jean Vachon [Mirza’s maid servant], Denis D’Auburn [the Emir’s advisor] William Boyd Mary Astor Caddo Company production; distributed by [United Artists Picture]. / Produced by John W. Mason, M.D. 1932 In a rented corner of a Lockheed Aircraft Corporation hangar in
Burbank, Mr. Hughes starts the
Hughes Aircraft Company as a division of the Hughes Tool Company and begins research on military aircraft. 1946 Dr. Mason
oversees
Mr. Hughes's long and difficult convalescence following the crash of his XF-11 experimental photoreconnaissance plane in Beverly Hills on July 7. Their
conversations turn again to medical research. Inspirations of Grace 2.) 3.) 4.) 5.) 6.) 7.) 8.) 9.) 10.) 11.) 12.)  Showing poems 1 to 12 of 15 1.)Welcome to our reading room. Many times the poetry that
leaves our hands to be placed on the printed page would be better
understood if orally delivered to our audience. This reading room has been set up for you to enjoy the heart songs of some of
our poets for out of the abundance of our hearts our lips speak. So turn on your sound, pour a cup of coffee and enjoy the nuances that can only come through the spoken word. The Town has leased sites for 17 privately owned hangars and there is space available for additional hangars. An airport manager and Airport Advisory Committee oversee the facility's operation. In addition to being a great source of recreation, the airport offers exceptional potential for future development and has the capability to accomodate operations to support local business
and industry Dexter Regional Airport and more than 24 miles of well maintained trails that link to trails throughout New England and eastern Canada. Wassookeag Snowmobile Club , is a 160+ member equine riding club that hosts 4 show each season, in addition to winter sled rides, trails
rides and other horse event. at R.M. Smythe, Two Rector Street, 12th floor, New York, NY, for the following purposes: (1) To
elect directors to serve for the ensuing year and until their successors are elected.
(2) To transact such other business as may properly come before the meeting or any adjournment thereof. Pamela Hamlon Recording Secretary New York, New York March 3, 2008 Posted by John Boelte at 08:14 PM February 25, 2008 Sir Richard Branson ReceivesClipper Heritage Award The Pan Am Historical Foundation recently awarded its to Sir Richard Branson, Founder and Chairman of the Virgin Group Ltd., for his environmental initiatives.Clipper Heritage Award Dexter, Maine A Touch of England Brought to Maine See which rooms are available during your stay.
Check in: These are our base rates - certain discounts and/or charges may apply
Weddings Weddings and special parties are meant to be enjoyed. So relax and enjoy your event by holding it at the Brewster Inn. Whether you plan to have 10 guests or 200, we'll help you arrange the details and make your special event memorable and unique. Inn and Grounds Fees: Total maximum charge of $150 an hour. If room nights at the Brewster Inn are booked as part of your event the Inn and grounds rental costs can be negotiated. Pan Am Clippers offered passengers
luxurious
accommodations similar to that of a grand oceanliner. 747 With America's entry into World War II, Pan Am's fleet of Clippers were quickly put into military service. The planes' long-distance range combined with its tremendous storage capacity proved beneficial during the war. After the war ended, worldwide expansion of airports with new and improved concrete runways led to
the Clipper fleet's ultimate demise. At one point, he even agreed to meet Whitney for lunch for a reconciliation but changed his mind and returned shortly after departing from his office in the . Board of Directors "Sonny" Whitney Chrysler Building Pan Am continued to expand worldwide
throughout
, being one of the few airlines that
was largely unaffected by the war. World War II Trippe is responsible for several innovations in the airline world. A firm believer in the idea of air travel for all, Trippe is credited as the father of the in the airline industry, and was the driving force behind Pan Am's formation of the
hotel group. tourist class InterContinental [2] Trippe quickly recognized the opportunities presented by and ordered several and airplanes. 7, Portage La Prairie. Newfoundland [G.L. Nova Scotia records] Saskatchewan[17] (C) September 9, 1929- June 19, 1934 [b. July 23, 1878- d. 1946] i.
March
26, 1921 - Banner Lodge No. 154, Regina. (CCF) July 10, 1944 - 1961 [b. October 20, 1904, d. March 7, 1995] i. April 1,
1935,
Wayburn Lodge No, 20 GRS, Wayburn. On July 17, 1990, President George Bush signed into law a joint resolution of the U.S. Congress, declaring the 1990s as "The Decade of the Brain." In his proclamation, President Bush called upon the scientific community, the general public, and the government to make research in neuroscience a top priority, with the expectation that new discoveries would lead ultimately to new treatments for brain disorders in patients. The Decade of the Brain has delivered on its promise. Since 1990, 10,000 new scientists have joined
the Society for Neuroscience, and the field has been revolutionized by advances in molecular biology, brain imaging, and drug development. But we shouldn't forget that the groundwork for these advances was laid in previous decades. It was very refreshing to attend an event featuring
local wines, as opposed to the usual selections, that added local charm to the evening. The food was also very good...our hat's off to the caterer! It was a a wonderfil oppurtunity to mix and mingle with all the other guests, who seemed to share our love of fine food and wine. We are looking forward to
the next dinner, and can't wait to see how you top the experience we already had." Sincerely, Steve and Laura - Avon, Ct. The Brewster Inn 008 37 Zion's Hill Rd. Tripadvisor nce again, the Brewster Inn delighted and entertained all five senses from the deliciously prepared appetizer to the main entree and finishing with dessert. The different wines that accompanied each course were carefully selected and truly complimented the flavors and aromas of the meal. Thank you Mark and Judith for introducing us to new friends, and for making such a memorable
evening. We so look forward to your next event. Trippe went to the office of the postmaster general with a proposition: if Pan Am found a way to cross the Pacific, it would be
guaranteed all of the airmail contracts to the Far East. Surprisingly, the Roosevelt administration agreed to this monopolistic deal. They decided that it was in the national interest to allow Pan Am to do what it had done in the Caribbean - blaze a path behind which American business and the American military could follow. the "Spruce Goose," has been seen by millions
over the years at it's original restoration site in Long
Beach next to the Queen  Mary.  In the early '90s, the Spruce
Goose was
moved from Long Beach to its current location in McMinnville, Oregon, home of Evergreen International Aviation's "Evergreen Aviation Museum."  Long time friend of Howard Hughes and a member of the Hughes Airwest Board of Directors, Jack Real was very much involved in the project. 10, 1644, was a leader of the Pilgrims, who established Plymouth Colony. In England he studied
briefly at Cambridge, the only Pilgrim Father to have some university training. A member of the local gentry in Scrooby, Yorkshire, he helped organize a separatist religious congregation in 1606 and financed its move to Holland in 1608. His influence with the Crown was instrumental in winning the approval of the Virginia Company for the proposal to resettle the congregation in America, and he was one of the few original Scrooby separatists who sailed on the Mayflower in 1620. Season's greetings of and from the Brewster Inn Categories: Breaking News Jim
Commentucci/The
Post-StandardJason Wright's gingerbread replica of the
Brewster Inn, in Cazenovia, includes details like snow on the roof and smoke billowing from the chimneys. If you felt
challenged baking a couple dozen gingersnaps or gingerbread cut-outs this holiday
season,
imagine how Jason Wright feels. Each year at this time, Wright, the executive chef at the Brewster Inn, orders extra supplies
of flour, sugar, eggs and food
coloring so he can make a gingerbread replica of the historic inn
overlooking Cazenovia Lake. The
inductees,
past and future, come from all walks of life, and are as varied as the businesses they helped spawn. All the inductees have one thing in common: they each had a vision which they set into action, and the resulting success made a profound difference in our community, our businesses and our way of life. The time is appropriate to recognize the contributions of these men
and women to the economy of Florida, and to our individual livelihoods. Many of us have etched a career in activities related to international trade and transportation, thanks in great measure to the vision, dedication and hard work of the International Trade Hall of Fame inductees. The International trade and transportation industry is in constant evolution, spurred in part by innovations in technology and the opportunities created by new markets. In 1985, he was posthumously awarded the by President . Medal of Freedom United States Ronald Reagan Although it is commonly believed Trippe was in whole or part, he was actually Northern European in ancestry. He was
named after his mother's Cuban stepfather. Reportedly, Juan Trippe did not like his name and even considered changing it, but relented when it provided him an advantage when
negotiating in Latin America, since people thought he was Hispanic. Cuban [] citation
needed
His wife, Elizabeth "Betty"
Stettinius
Trippe (1904-1983) was the sister of They had four children, Elizabeth ("Betsy"), John Terry, Charles White, and Edward
Stettinius Trippe, who now resides in . United States Secretary of State Edward R. Stettinius, Jr. Tucker's Town, Bermuda Please any relevant information into
appropriate sections or articles.should be avoided. With character, determination and, in many cases, little more than a hope
and a
dream,
this outstanding group of
individuals built a bridge that linked the US with Latin America and the Caribbean, across which trade and tourism have flourished over the past four decades. Today, we are enjoying the fruits of their labor and the wisdom of their vision. Sharp-Hughes Rock Bit found virtually all the oil discovered
during
the initial years of rotary drilling, and Howard Junior became the
wealthiest person in the world. During 1972 he made the tool company
public and realized $150 million the day it sold.
Sharp-Hughes Tool Company Walter Benona Sharp licensing tri-cone rotary drill bit [4] [] edit References Donald L. Barlett, James B. Steele. Howard Hughes: His Life and Madness. New York: W. W.
On January 16, 1997, The deal was completed in the Fall of 1997. | | |||| | | FAS
Military Analysis Companies Index Search HUGHES ELECTRONICS
CORPORATION
Hughes
Electronics
Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of General Motors Corporation, was formed on December 31, 1985, when General Motors acquired Hughes Aircraft Company from the Howard Hughes
Medical Institute. Hughes Electronics consists of Delco Electronics Corporation; Hughes Aircraft Company; Hughes Telecommunications and Space Company; Hughes Network Systems, Inc.; and DIRECTV, Inc. The origins of the company reach back to 1932, when aviator-industrialist-movie producer Howard Hughes formed an aircraft division within the Hughes Tool Company. Hughes
Aircraft
contributed to World War II by
manufacturing armaments and radio equipment. Its role
increased after the war to include advanced radar
systems and radar guided missiles. M
N P Q R S T U V W Y Z The Library houses over 280 manuscript collections, many of which relate to Bowdoin, its graduates,
faculty, staff and board members. The collection descriptions accessed from the following list fall into two categories: general collection guides, marked , or full finding aids, marked
. The general collection guides provide quick access to material in collections not yet described through full finding aids.
These guides include biographical sketches or agency
histories, scope and contents notes, extent in linear feet and other broad descriptive information. Detailed paper registers are available in Special Collections & Archives for many of these
collections; others are only partially processed and lack detailed
inventories. (1905-1976), an
American businessman, became known as one of the world's richest people. During the
1930's
and 1940's, he gained fame as a motion-picture producer and aviator. Then, in the
mid-1950's, Hughes deliberately dropped out of sight. He became a mysterious figure who never appeared in public and even refused to have his photograph taken.Hughes, Howard Robard Among the many achievements Jack Real attained during his lifetime, he was on the Executive Board of the , and helped ,
another
important name in the industry, with the testing of the at the
military base
in southern . Real also
contributed work on the which helped revolutionize the way the
conducts
warfare. Throughout all of this, Hughes and Real
remained close confidants. In 1979, three years after Hughes' death, Jack Real became the President of and served for eight years until his retirement in 1987. Boy Scouts of America Kelly Johnson SR-71 Blackbird Area 51 Nevada Apache helicopter United States military Hughes
Helicopter Pan AM 2001 - no longer active Site for the
10-year
anniversary reunion of former Pan Am
employees in Baltimore, Maryland, September 27-30, 2001 Jon
Krupnick's wonderful companion site to his series of books on
Pan Am's Pacific first flights. Pacific Pioneers The
Richter Library houses many of Pan Am's corporate records University of Miami Otto Richter Library A site by Beth Cozzi-Stewart in honor of Pan Am and her parents who both worked for the company. PanAmAir A Perspective of the three companies that have used the Pan Am logo. She publishes the extensive online new age Ezine, on her website: . Rebecca is also available for personal . The Enchanted Sprite Enchanted Spirit astrology and tarot readings and consultations ~ Johannes Kepler ~ Born December 27, 1571I much prefer the sharpest criticism of a single intelligent man to the thoughtless approval of the masses.