As with most specialist cars, there is no formal insurance grouping, and you may find that your usual broker is unsure of the car. However, there are a plethora of brokers who specialise in insuring specialist vehicles such as classic cars, 15+ year old sports cars, motorbikes and kit cars. Premiums are particularly competitive, usually cheaper than you would expect to be able to insure the original car from which your Quantum was built. How will my local garage service or repair a car as unusual and specialised as a Quantum? Although your local garage
may not have seen a Quantum before, a
look under the bonnet, together with a brief explanation from yourself, will quickly give your mechanic his bearings. The car will be serviced exactly as the 'parent' Ford would be. How can I get
a finish like the demonstrators at the
factory if I have standard gelcoat bodywork? The inside surfaces of the Quantum moulds are polished to a mirror finish,
hence
the components produced are of such high quality. The TC Midgets were the big sellers in the post-war era, establishing the marque'5 reputation in the crucial US market, setting the stage for the MGA and its successor the MGB of 1962. By the late 1960s, however, MG had fallen victim
to corporate  politics, as other cars from the British Motor Holdings (later British Leyland) stable took precedence over the MG product. Yet this is by no means the end of the
story: in
the early
1990s the Rover Group made the welcome decision to revive the MG as a sports car; fifteen years after the last MGB rolled off the production line. Automotive
recyclers must abide by
stringent local and national regulations
on dealing with waste generated by salvaged automobiles. Many individual automotive recyclers have also instituted their own unique programs to further reduce the potential effects of harmful
materials to their businesses and communities. In 2006, the gross
annual revenues are an estimated $10 billion. In 1997,
auto recyclers acquired 4.7 million vehicles for the purpose of recycling. Recycling vehicles provides enough steel to produce almost 13
million new vehicles. Saves an estimated 85 million barrels of oil a year, that would have been used in the manufacturing of new or replacement parts. Buy direct from the engine supplier that stocks the
engines and save the middleman markup you'll pay otherwise Connect to hundreds of auto n' truck used & surplus engines sellers with just one search Find the engine you need at the price you want without wasting hours searching the Web and submitting multiple requests Save phone calls cost1. This is made and cut to size in the UK before it is shipped to Italy where each part is laid in moulds before being ookedto form the rigid sections that are then bonded or bolted together
to form
the
complete
body. The chassis, made in Italy, is fully built up before the body is
attached, then the mechanically complete cars are finished
in the UK. You can drive the car as soon as you have had the number
plates made, and receive the new V5 from DVLA Swansea a few weeks later. If your car is factory built, this will have
been done for you. ...so, what is Single Vehicle
Approval? All cars must be Ministry approved. Production cars are 'Type Approved', involving crash testing etc. Cars of very low volume are approved via the Single Vehicle Approval (SVA) scheme. Crash testing is obviously not feasible when the amateur 'manufacturer' builds only one car, so each builder takes their completed car to one of the designated HGV testing stations. For example for some
of the T
series parts
from Morris 10 /12 are suitable replacements. We can advise you on suitability.Morris/Austin/BMC vehicle parts plus equipment suppliers Manufacturers of items cylinder head gaskets & gasket kits, brake linings, transmission kits, tyres are still obtainable. We have contracts with a number of suppliers. MG body parts sourced from small producers e.g. grills, radiators, sills. We both manufacture and we can obtain parts for clients.Independently manufactured parts Although sometimes known as auto salvage dealers, professional automotive recyclers deal
strictly
in the recycling of motor vehicles - i.e., domestic and foreign automobiles, light and heavy-duty trucks, buses and motorcycles. Automotive recycling serves a vital role in preserving natural resources and reducing the demand for scarce landfill space. For example, each year approximately 95 percent of vehicles retired from use are processed for recycling.