The most deadly incident
occurred the evening of June
11, when a tornado struck a Boy Scout
camp in western Iowa, killing
4 and injuring
nearly 50. Two others were also killed in Kansas the same night, one by an EF3 in Chapman and the other near
Soldier. Kansas State University in Manhattan, KS also suffered major damage from the storms. /span>        Seek indoor shelter if time permits; if
not, get into a ditch, ravine, or
low-lying area. /span>        If in a
vehicle, park the vehicle and get
into a ditch or ravine.  A
vehicle offers no protection from a tornado. In a House: /span>        In houses, the basement offers the best protection. /span>        In houses without basements, go to the
center hallway, bathroom, or closet on the lower floor. /span>        Stay away from windows get under heavy furniture. In Apartments: The official colors of the Worcester
Tornadoes are
black, orange, and beige. The primary logo consists of a stylized, white baseball with orange threads centered inside of a black ring outlined in orange and black. The words "Worcester Tornadoes" are arched inside of the ring in beige in scripted, capital letters. An orange and black tornado wraps
around a baseball bat in the
middle of the logo, with a
white "W" superimposed over the center, with black outline. The new scale identifies 28 different free standing structures most affected by
tornadoes taking into account construction quality and
maintenance. The range of tornado intensities remains as before, zero to five, with 'EF0' being the weakest, associated with very little damage and 'EF5' representing complete destruction, which was the case in Greensburg, Kansas on May 4th, 2007, the first tornado classified as 'EF5'. If you live in an area where loss of electricity from seasonal storms is a problem, you can plan ahead to be prepared for the worst. Keep your freezer as full as possible by freezing water in plastic containers and using them to fill any empty spaces not
occupied by frozen food. This feature
allows you to save a link to the page you
are reading, which you can later return
to from Projects. This feature allows you to highlight words or phrases on the publication page you are reading. This feature allows you to save a note you write on the publication page you are reading. This feature allows you to create a citation to the page you are reading that you can paste into
your paper.
Landspouts can form in
rather benign synoptic environments (Brady and Szoke 1988) and in a variety of other synoptic settings. Typically, since landspouts develop as the
result of strong updrafts interacting with surface boundaries, high values of instability are present. Large values of convective available
potential energy (CAPE) are
usually necessary for the
explosive thunderstorm
development
that often occurs with landspout
tornadoes. 5. Radar Detection Problems and Strategies Radar detection of non-supercell tornadoes is severely limited due to a variety of factors as
discussed above. Australia Severe thunderstorm warnings are provided to Australia by the . The country is in the middle of an upgrade to systems,
with their first
benchmark of installing six new radars reached in July 2006. Bureau of Meteorology Doppler radar [64] Europe The ESTOFEX () project issues one day forecasts for severe weather likelihood and the ESSL () maintain a database
of events. European Storm Forecast Experiment European Severe Storms Laboratory [65] [66] Although tornadic outbreaks in January are not common, they more frequently occur in the Central and Southern states and are quite rare in the north-central Plains. The January 7 tornadoes in Wisconsin were the second instance of January tornado reports on record in that state; the first occurred in 1967. Eighty-four tornadoes were confirmed from January 2008 in the Continental U.S. February Tornado Damage Across the South Do not leave the shelter
area until after the storm is over.
Continue to monitor the
weather via radio or television until the tornado warning has been lifted for your area. If a tornado warning has been issued and you are outside: If you are in your car, get out of it. NOAA's objective was to place the TOTO directly in the path of a tornado, where it could, theoretically, record valuable information
about the tornado's structure.TOtable Tornado Observatory The Wizard of Oz tornado Dr. Al Bedard National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration TOTO was deployed several times during the 1980s, but scientists repeatedly failed to position it for a direct hit. The Disaster Center bases it's risk
assessment by dividing the square
mileage of each state against the frequency of death, injury, number of tornadoes, and cost of damages for each state. We then rank each State by these individual categories. We then add the total of each State's indiviual rankings and divided by the number of factors (four). Tornados can appear in many different colors depending on the type of dust they pick up from the earth.sources: GLIDE; WMO Arkansas: hospitals put
to the test during disaster drill 24
July 2008 A large-scale drill was held in nine hospitals of NW Arkansas last Wednesday to test
employees' responses to a large-scale disaster.... some storms don't seem to create them at all, others create the weak vortices but for reasons
not understood, they don't go on to become tornadoes, some storms create tornado-like vortices aloft but they never intensify at the surface, and a few seem to
create tornadoes from these weaker vortices pretty easily. All of the complexity of the real atmosphere makes this question a harder to answer than you might
think. Progress has been made, but a simple, comprehensive answer to the question seems unlikely any time soon. Florida's 2007 Hazardous Weather Awareness Week
presents a perfect time to become better prepared by conducting the following short activity. Tornado Watch At 9:00AM a is
issued by the National Weather Services.Tornado Watch Designate authority (coordinator). This will be the individual who is responsible for
coordinating any
activities associated with
your Disaster Response Plan. In
apparent response to this, a word from FEMA: FEMA is urging people who live in tornado-prone areas to make sure
they have a
tornado-safe place to go during a tornado. In the absence of a basement, a tornado-safe room build within the house will protect your family during a tornado. Properly built safe rooms can provide protection against winds of 250 miles per hour and against flying objects traveling at 100 miles per hour. We'd like to thank various people for helping to put together this FAQ: Sim Aberson, Jack Beven, Gary Padgett, Tom Berg, Julian Heming, Gary Gray, Frank Woodcock, Stephen Caparotta, Steven Young, D.
Walston, James Lewis Free, Jon Gill, Miles Lawrence, Robert A. Black, Bill McCaul, Bart Hagemeyer, Frank Marks, Joe Cione, Frank Lepore, and John Guiney, all provided substantial bits to this FAQ. Many thanks also to Jan Null for providing the first .html version of the FAQ. You can improve the odds of your home surviving high winds by taking these precautions, but you can't make it tornado-proof. While these measures won't guarantee the safety of your family and you, they can help keep the odds in your favor: Move anything in your yard
that may become
flying debris inside your house or garage before a storm strikes. Do this only if authorities have announced a tornado watch. If authorities have announced a tornado warning, leave it all alone. Some did not hear the warning while others received the warning but did not believe a tornado would actually affect them. The preparedness information in this brochure, combined with timely severe weather watches and warnings,
could save your life in
the event a tornado threatens your area. After you have
received the warning or observed threatening skies, YOU must make the decision to seek shelter before the storm arrives.It could be the most important decision you will ever
make. Classic Twister The strongest tornadoes often form
when the wind at around 10,000 feet blows in a different
direction than surface wind.
Warm air rising in the storm system
hits this the wind shear and is pushed from a vertical motion to a horizontal motion, creating a strong rotation.   Twisters often start to
become a minor menace in March,
depending on climate
conditions
and where you live. Tornadoes form
where warm moist air is trapped
underneath a layer of cold, dry air.  ·  ·  · Deadly Skies: Canada's Most Destructive Tornadoes Home Environment Extreme Weather Topic spans: 1946 - 2000 Deadly Skies: Canada's Most Destructive Tornadoes A tornado is the stuff of nightmares. Amid heavy rain and hail, huge thunderclouds roll in and the skies turn greenish-black. And then a rope-like funnel cloud punches down, smashing everything in its path. Tornadoes can be the most violent storms on earth, and Canada averages 80 of them each year. Sturdy buildings are the safest place
to be.
Tornado winds can
blow large objects, including cars,
hundreds of feet away. Tornadoes can change direction quickly and can lift up a car or truck and toss it through the air. Never try to out-drive a tornado. Mobile homes are
particularly vulnerable. A mobile home
can overturn very easily even if precautions have been taken to tie down the unit.If you're outside in a car or in a mobile home, go immediately to the basement of a nearby sturdy building. global observing system focused research NOAA climate mission NOAA is a key participating agency in the as well as other significant , national, and . U.S. Climate Change Science Program (CCSP) international regional activities NOAAs climate programs are focused on three themes: to describe and understand the state of the climate system through
integrated
observations, monitoring, data stewardship; Climate Observations and Monitoring It can last from only a few minutes to an hour or more. Inside
the air column, there is a very powerful updraught which
causes very low atmospheric pressure at the surface. Immediately outside the column, winds are
rotating (anticlockwise in the northern hemisphere, clockwise in the southern) at speeds that can be higher than 90 metres per second (200 miles per hour). : Tornado south of Dimmitt, Texas June 1995 (Image courtesy of NOAA)Fig 1 How do tornadoes form? scientific ideas change and should never be taken as "cookie
cutters" that map out
categorical operational
strategies (i.e., if a real event look like the model, then there's nothing to worry about, and if it look like the model, then the event is inevitable).doesn'tdoes Anyone wishing to discuss, argue, or otherwise harangue me on the foregoing is encouraged to respond via e-mail. The 219 mile track left by the tornado was the longest ever recorded in the .Tri-State Tornado March 18 1925 Missouri Illinois Indiana U.S. history Great Natchez Tornado United States The funnel cloud was first sighted around 1:00 p.m., March 18, northwest of . The
tornado sped to the northeast, killing two and causing $500,000 of damage to and the mining town of Leadanna. In Bollinger County, 32 children
were injured when two schools were damaged. Eleven died altogether in Missouri. Ellington, Missouri Annapolis An exceptional fighter, Sabre also has the unique ability to talk himself out of any situation. Sensei The NX Secret has amplified Sabre s natural abilities and given him the power of Cogno Budo. Sabre sees patterns and clarity where others see only confusion. By examining his environment and his opponent s movements, Sabre can anticipate the outcome of a fight. Using this sixth sense ,
Sabre had no difficulty engaging a Phantom Ninja in Revelations. During Full Circle, Sabre met his match while fighting . The Tornados also enjoyed several in their own right, including the US Number One "" (named after the and composed by Meek). It was the first US #1 by a group. Since only three British records had topped the US charts: "" by in 1952, "" by in May of 1962, and "" by in 1958. chart hits Telstar
satellite British World War II Auf Wiederseh'n Sweetheart Vera Lynn Stranger on the Shore Acker Bilk He's Got the Whole
World in His Hands Laurie London on Severe Local Storms- Davies, J. M., 2006: Tornadoes with cold core 500-mb lows. , , 10511062.Wea. Forecasting21- ____, and J. L. Guyer, 2004: A preliminary climatology of tornado events with closed cold core 500 mb lows in the central and eastern United States. Preprints, , Hyannis, MA, Amer. Meteor. Soc., CD-ROM, 7B.4.22dConf. Severe Local Storms Doswell, C. A., III, S. J. Weiss, and R. H. Johns, 1993: Tornado forecastingA review.