The grants, authorized by the 2002 Farm Bill, are designed to help simplify food stamp application and eligibility systems. The recipients are state agencies working in partnership with faith and community-based organizations. In Arizona for example, the Office of the Governor partnered with the Foundation for Senior Living, a faith-based organization. This joint effort, Project AzSECURE (Arizona Serving Eligible Customers and Utilizing Resources Efficiently) will integrate the Food Stamp Program application process with Medicare, including the Prescription Drug Benefit. Under Secretary for Food, Nutrition and Consumer Services Eric M. Bost presented the
partnership
with a check for $823,343 in Phoenix today. "We are committed to
simplifying access, while maintaining the integrity of the program," said Bost. "During the application process, we encouraged state agencies to partner with faith and community based
organizations. Under this contract, the USDA has authorized the University of Connecticut's Department of Nutritional Sciences to administer, design, develop implement and evaluate a
Food Stamp Nutrition Education (FSNE)
plan
based on
the following objectives. : FSNE program participants
will demonstrate increased knowledge and skills needed to choose healthy foods after
completion of FSNE activities.Healthy Food : FSNE participants will
demonstrate increased knowledge and skill needed balance
dietary intake with physical activity after completion of FSNE activitiesPhysical Activity : FSNE participants will increase their intake and variety of fruits and vegetables after completion of FSNE activities.Fruit and Vegetable Consumption : FSNE participants will demonstrate
increase
knowledge
and skills in food resource management after completion of FSNE
activities.Resource Management : FSNE participants will demonstrate increased food safety knowledge and skills after completion of FSNE
activities.Food Safety
The other five grantees are the City of New York in partnership with the New York City
Coalition Against Hunger ($945,000), Minnesota Department of Human Services ($911,900), Department of Human Services, State of Tennessee ($800,000), Maryland Department of Human Resources ($938,057) and
the Michigan Department of Human Services, the Michigan
Office
of Services
to the Aging and eight non profit organizations ($566,143). The six grantees were selected from more than 31 proposals submitted by states, nonprofit groups and other organizations. Additional information about each project is available online at . On January 29, 2001, the President created the White
House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives (WHOFBCI) along with offices in Federal Agencies. These offices work
together
to ensure that faith and community-based organizations
have the opportunity to
assist America's neediest families and individuals. Complete information about the software is available at: http://www.WorkWORLD.org See How to Get WorkWORLD page at:
http://www.WorkWORLD.org/howtogetWW.html NOTE:
Sponsored
links and commercial advertisements help make the WorkWORLD™
website possible by partially defraying its operating and maintenance expenses. No endorsement of these or any related commercial products or services is intended or implied by the Employment Support Institute or any of its partners. ESI and its partners take no responsibility for,
and exercise no control over, any of these advertisements or
their views or contents, and do not vouch for the accuracy of the information contained in them. Readers are cautioned to verify all information obtained from these advertisements
prior to taking any actions based upon them. The installed WorkWORLD software does not
contain advertisements of any kind. Copyright © 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, . It is illegal to knowingly use, transfer, acquire, change or possess food stamps or Dakota EBT cards in any way not authorized by the Food Stamp Program. If the value is $100 or more, you could be charged with a felony. If found guilty, you could
be fined up to $250,000, be
sentenced to 20 years in jail, or both. Persons found guilty
of
intentional
program violations may be disqualified from the Food Stamp Program 12 months for the first offense, 24 months for the second and permanently for the third offense. In addition, the court will require repayment of any unauthorized food stamp benefit issued. Householdsuse food stamp benefits to buy:CANNOT
Beer, wine, liquor, cigarettes or
tobacco; Any nonfood items such as pet foods, soaps, paper
products
and household supplies Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, formerly Food Stamp Program) National SNAP (Food Stamp)
Hotline Use the following numbers to get information on SNAP (Food Stamp) questions in the States and areas of States listed. These hotlines
can also tell you how to contact the local office responsible for SNAP in your locality. Most are toll-free numbers for in-State calls. Some states use different names for the SNAP (Food Stamp) Program. See the topic for more information. Names of State SNAP (Food Stamp) Programs This list is believed current as of July 2008. See Notes below table for further explanations. Food stamp benefits
are provided to supplement the recipient’s food
budget. The amount of
benefits
a
household receives is based on its size, income and allowable expenses. Food stamp recipients are given a plastic Dakota EBT Card. The store cashier runs the debit card through a point-of-sale device to subtract the recipient's purchase amount from their allotted benefits. Using the card is much faster and easier than paper coupons and eliminates loss or theft of food
stamps.
1-800-869-1150 outside metro area, (404) 657-9358 inside metro area Hawaii   NOTES: * These numbers are for in-State and out-of-State calls. All other 800 numbers are for in-State calls only. Source:
http://www.fns.usda.gov/fsp/contact_info/hotlines.htm
WorkWORLD™
Help/Information System    : Click the button or link at left to
select your favorite bookmark service and add this page. Share/Save Contact: Ed Loyd (202)720-4623 Susan Acker (703)
305-2286 USDA AWARDS $5 MILLION IN FOOD STAMP
PARTICIPATION GRANTS WASHINGTON, August 3, 2005 -
Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns today announced that six grants totaling $5 million
have been awarded to help increase access to USDA's Food Stamp Program for low-income households. "These grants are part of
President Bush's efforts to help
those who are eligible for benefits enroll in the Food Stamp
Program," said Johanns.