/span>        Tornadoes
in most cases move from a westerly direction, usually from the
southwest.  The tornado path is usually 10-40 miles (the average length is 16 miles), but they may move forward for 300 miles.  The average width of the path is about 400 yards, but they have cut swaths over a mile in width.  Speeds within the tornado have been estimated at 500 mph. /span>        Tornadoes cause destruction with violent winds which uproot trees, destroy buildings, and which create a serious hazard from objects blown through the air. TORNADO PREPAREDNESS /span>        Learn the tornado safety rules given in this leaflet. /span>        Maintain a tone-alert weather radio to follow weather conditions and
to receive local
warnings. /span>        Turn on local radio or television stations for information on weather and tornado conditions.  Call 9-1-1 only to request emergency assistance. With 695 confirmed deaths, the storm killed more than twice as many as the second deadliest, the 1840 . The 219 mile track left by the tornado was the longest ever recorded in the .Tri-State Tornado March 18 1925 Missouri Illinois Indiana U.S. history Great Natchez Tornado United States The funnel cloud was first sighted around 1:00 p.m., March 18, northwest of . The tornado sped to the northeast, killing two and causing $500,000 of damage to and the
mining town of Leadanna. In Bollinger County, 32 children were injured when two schools were damaged. Eleven died altogether in Missouri. Ellington, Missouri Annapolis The tornado crossed the and into southern Illinois, hitting the town of , at 2:30 p.m., killing 34. Continuing to the northeast at an average speed of 60 miles per hour, the tornado cut a swath almost a mile wide through , , , and West Frankfort. Quick access to current warning information, especially during fast breaking events, is essential. Government and community leaders at all levels, even down to the local neighborhood association, can reduce risks by upgrading and enforcing building codes, establishing contingency plans, requiring and providing shelters in mobile home communities and other areas where they are needed, and establishing or upgrading local warning dissemination systems. Do you have a in your home and / or office to monitor the weather? NOAA Weather Radio Do you have a in your home / office where you can evacuate to during a tornado? safe place Do you have a Disaster Response ? Plan Do you have a Disaster Supplies ? Kit Do you have an emergency Communications ? Plan        TORNADO DRILL TIMELINE You can facilitate a Tornado Drill at your office or in your home at anytime. Florida's 2007 Hazardous Weather Awareness Week presents a perfect time to become better
prepared by conducting the following short activity. Tornado Watch At 9:00AM a is issued by the National Weather Services.Tornado Watch Designate authority (coordinator). This will be the individual who is responsible for coordinating any activities associated with your Disaster Response Plan. THREAT TO LIFE AND PROPERTY Gustnado Whirl of dust or debris at or near ground; no condensation funnel F0-F1 (possibly higher) along gust front or outflow; often with squall line or bow echo generally less than 1-2 km generally less than 25 nm YES Narrow, rope-like condensation funnel,
often resembling a tube F0-F2 form with rapidly developing updrafts near convergence boundaries generally from 1 to 4 km; may grow upward with time generally less than 25 nm YES Table 1. Summary of Non-Supercell Tornadoes 4. Forecasting Non-Supercell Tornadoes While much is known about environmental conditions that favor the development of supercell thunderstorms,
atmospheric
parameters and forecasting techniques
are
not as well researched for non-supercell tornadoes. This makes forecasting their occurrence extremely difficult. Providing warnings for these short-lived, transient vortices
is also very difficult. In a shopping center, school building or factory: Go to a pre-designated shelter area if available Avoid buildings with large-span roofs Find an interior room, closet, bathroom or hallway Crouch down and cover your head with your hands Stay away from windows Terms you should know Tornado Watch: Indicates tornadoes
and/or severe thunderstorms are possible. Review tornado safety rules. Monitor local weather closely. Seek alternative shelter if you live in a mobile home Tornado Warning: An urgent message that a tornado has been sighted or detected by Doppler radar. Move quickly to a place of safety and take cover Outdoor warning sirens: Some local
communities activate outdoor warning sirens when local severe weather spotters sight a tornado or funnel cloud. Every reliable report should be investigated using all available radar and surface data. When possible, careful questioning of the person reporting the tornado/funnel cloud is extremely valuable in determining the validity of the report. This practice will not only increase the
chances of obtaining reliable ground-truth reports of tornadoes and funnel clouds, but it will also help enhance the credibility and utility of spotters whose reports may otherwise be discounted. When and where do tornadoes occur? Most tornadoes occur in the deep south and in the broad, relatively flat basin between the Rockies and the Appalachians, but no state is immune. Peak months of
tornado activity in the U.S. are April, May, and June. However, tornadoes have occurred in every month and at all times of the day or night. A typical time of occurrence is on an unseasonably warm and sultry Spring afternoon between 3 p.m. and 9 p.m. What causes tornadoes? Tornadoes form under a certain set of weather conditions in which three very different types of air come together in a certain way. Near the ground lies a layer of warm and humid air, along with strong south winds. Colder air and strong west or southwest winds lie in the upper atmosphere. A tornado in contact with a body of water is called a
waterspout. A tornado is capable of extreme damage because it packs very high wind speeds into a compact area. Tornadoes have been known to shatter buildings, drive straws through solid wood, lift locomotives from their tracks, and pull the water out of small streams. The United States experiences most of the world's tornadoes, averaging about 800 each year. Most of these tornadoes arise in the states of Texas, Oklahoma, and Kansas.
Although tornadoes can occur at any time of the year, most form during the months of March through June, when conditions are right for the development of severe
thunderstorms.
In a severe storm, rain that
falls from a cloud causes
downdrafts (sinking air) in the rear of the cloud. Meanwhile, the advancing edge of the storm has strong updrafts and humid air is pulled into the storm. As this humid air rises and cools, its water vapor condenses to form more water droplets, releasing heat in the process into the surrounding air. This latent heat, in turn, causes the air mass to rise ever more quickly, strengthening the storm. As updrafts in a severe thunderstorm cloud get stronger, more air is pulled
into the base of the
cloud to replace the rising air. The tornado proceeded through Hamilton and White Counties, claiming 65 more residents. Mississippi River Gorham, Illinois Murphysboro De Soto Hurst-Bush Crossing the into Indiana, the tornado struck and travelled ten more miles to the northeast before finally dissipating. In Indiana, 71 perished. In all, 695 died, mostly in Illinois. Total damage was estimated at $16.5 million, with the majority in and around Murphysboro. If tornado winds enter the room, debris has a tendency to collect in corners. When selecting a tornado "safe place," look for a place on the lowest level and away from windows, preferably in a small room (closet or bathroom) in the center of the house. Closer walls will help provide more support to the roof, and each wall between you and the outside will provide further protection.It used to be advised to go to the southwest corner for safety; however, the southwest corner of a house is no safer than any other corner. Air pressure differences in a tornado are not strong enough to cause a house to explode; houses are damaged by the violent winds associated with a tornado and from the debris blown at high velocities by tornado winds.Folklore passed down through the generations used to advise opening windows in case of a tornado because air pressure differences would cause a house to explode.