They are extremely susceptible to high temperature and tolerate Southern climates such as ours very poorly unless they are kept in an air-conditioned house. I think the important point to remember in relation to Arctic breed, is that these breeds were able to survive in the Arctic not only because they could tolerate cold but because more precisely, they could tolerate extremely wide swings of
temperature in
relation to their body temperature. The main inner organs of the dog are similar to the ones on the human body and they
fulfill the
same functions. Dog anatomy is really simple as you can see here. RESPIRATORY SYSTEM The lungs take up the most part of the
thorax cavity. The muscles that
control the breathing (the diaphragm and some muscles of the body) get dilated and contracted in a spectacular way when the dog is making any effort. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM The dog's digestive
system begin in
its strong jaws and its powerful teeth. After
chewing the food,
this is guided to the back part of the mouth and from there to the throat and the esophagus. Treatment can be resumed after one cycle without treatment.  A physical
examination and vaginal smear should be performed before treatment to determine the dog health status and stage of the reproductive cycle. :General Information Notify your veterinarian if any of the following occur: Your pet mammary glands enlarge or produce
milk Your pet
seems listless or drinks or urinates excessively Your pet temperament
or appetite changes Your pet develops a vaginal discharge. Progestins (Ovaban)This is a drug that we almost NEVER recommend. We occasionally use it for purposes other than it's "labeled" intent but quite rarely. We consider ovario hysterectomy the safest method of birth control in dogs and cats at this time and do not consider this an appropriate choice in most cases. Heating element molded into high-density durable polyethylene allowing it
to be washed. Internal thermostat keeps the
temperature at a desirable 100°. Optional temperature control rheostat for heat adjustment. (Purchase separately below) Lectro-Kennel cover (included) adds comfort. Limited one-year manufacturer warranty. Cover is made from fleece-like material, preshrunk and washable. Cover is breathable, won't warp pad. Note: For use in confined space, order a size which is approximately half the space size so that
your pet an
opportunity to
get off of the heated surface if it desires.
RHEOSTAT CONTROL UNIT (EK&TB) Provides a convenient and reliable fingertip selection on the exact warmth your pet needs in any environment or climate. The breed with the dubious distinction of the shortest lifespan (among breeds for which there is a
questionnaire survey with a reasonable sample size) is the Dogue de Bordeaux with a median longevity of about 5.2 years, but several breeds, including Miniature Bull Terrier, Bulldog, Nova Scotia Duck Tolling Retriever, Bloodhound, Irish Wolfhound, Greater Swiss Mountain Dog, Great Dane, and Mastiff, are nearly as short-lived, with median longevities between 6 and 7 years. In the case of the automobile, one circulates water through the
engine and then passes it through a radiator that has a relatively high degree of efficiency at transferring the heat from the water to, in this case, the air. In general, this is not a terribly efficient method, though it is adequate in the case of the automobile. Temperatures inside a parked car can rapidly reach dangerous levels, even on relatively mild days, and even if the car is parked in
the shade with the windows slightly open. Dark-colored cars especially can become very hot inside - even on days that do not seem too hot to take your dog along. In just minutes, the temperature inside a parked car can climb to well over 120 degrees or more. Even a short time in a hot environment can be life-threatening. : Dogs with moderate heat stroke often recover without complicating health
problems. Severe heat stroke can cause organ damage
that may need ongoing care such as a special diet prescribed by your veterinarian. Dogs who suffer from heat stroke once increase their risk of getting it again and steps must be taken to prevent it on hot, humid days.AFTERCARE For a far more extensive discussion of Poodle origins, see Rosa Engler, Pudel (Cham, Switzerland: Muller, 1995), literally at your fingertips here in an English-language crib:
Origins of the Poodle. For more information about
ancient dogs, see: J.M.C. Toynbee, Animals in Roman Life and Art (Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1973), and a source recommended
there: Aymard, Essai sur les chasses romaines, chapter XII (1951). Toynbee indicates that dogs were a frequent subject on Roman grave stones, ashes containers and so on; unfortunately a photographic survey is yet to be published. The ability of the animal's foot and lower leg to live at very low temperatures requires addition adaptation of the tissue, some of
which is not well understood. There is
one example though that is well understood and noted, and that is the difference in the melting (or freezing, Ed.) temperature of the fat associated with the foot and leg as compared to
the melting temperature of body fat. The best example of this noted in
the case of
neatsfoot oil which is the fat from the foot of a cow as compared to the tallow which is the fat from the body of the cow.
Common endocrine diseases include hypothyroidism and hyperadrenocorticism
(cushing's
disease). Laboratory tests are necessary to diagnose definitively such disorders, and with proper treatment the bitch may become fertile. Another consideration is that the use of some medications may suppress the hormonal events necessary for ovarian function. Corticosteroids, frequently administered in the treatment of skin
allergies, may be the cause of secondary anestrus. The functional longevity of the ovaries in the bitch is unknown. although ovarian function generally declines after the bitch is eight to 10 years old, the ovaries may cease to function
earlier (premature ovarian failure).  
Dog Gestation The number of puppies is in function to the dog's breed and the female. Large breeds can have up to 13 or 14 puppies. Mediums sized dogs can have up to 5 puppies per litter.How many puppies can a dog have in one gestation?  It lasts from 56 to 60 days. Learn about canine cold symptoms,
home remedies and treatment options. Dog Cold Symptom Constipation Cure Dog Guide. Learn about the diagnosis, treatment and symptoms of this condition. Constipation Cure Dog Canine
Coronavirus is one of the most common viral infections in dogs. Use the Dog Health Guide for common sense information on
dog illnesses and care. Canine Coronavirus Canine cough can be the sign of several different problems. Learn about the differences, kennel cough, canine cough medicine and home treatments Canine Cough Practical advice for Canine Kennel cough treatment. Learn about home adminstered and Veternary approaches to treating this disease. Canine Kennel Cough Treatment Cushings Disease in Dog treatment options vary based on the location on the tumor. Markedly increased temperature (greater than 107 F) must be treated more aggressively. Cooling can be promoted externally by immersion
in cool water, or internally by administering a cool water enema. Underlying aggravating
conditions, such as
upper airway obstructive diseases, heart
disease, pulmonary disease and dehydration may be treated with appropriate medications, supplemental oxygen or fluid therapy. Treatment with cortisone-like drugs such as short-acting forms of dexamethasone or may be recommended. The need for additional treatments depends on the severity of heat stroke and secondary complications that may arise. Complications of heat stroke may include:
prednisone Serum biochemistry tests to check blood glucose concentration, assess the extent of damage to vital organs, such as muscles, kidneys and liver, and to evaluate the electrolyte and acid base status. Intensity of treatment depends upon the cause and severity of the heat illness. Treatment Mildly increased temperature (less
than 105 F) may only require rest, a fan to increase air circulation, fresh
water to drink and careful observation. Excessive panting Salivation Body temperature of 104or more Collapse Diarrhea
Vomiting Increased, thumping heart rate Depression Stupor or appearing in a daze Seizures Coma Heatstroke is usually seen in
the months between May and July. Treatment of Dog Heat Stroke 1. Move your dog to a cool place such as an air conditioned room. Over the years, the safety of early altering has been questioned, mainly by veterinarians who may be unfamiliar with the surgical and anesthetic techniques required for pediatric patients. As well, concerns that early altering could increase the incidence of feline lower urinary tract disease, could affect skeletal development, and affect behavior have been voiced. A study recently published by researchers at the University of Florida found no
significant differences in the physical and
behavioral characteristics of cats altered at 7 weeks of age compared to
those altered at 7 months of age.These concerns have largely been laid
to rest by many studies, and early altering is becoming more widespread and available. The unaffected sons of an affected male cannot carry the problem. XY to xx (father
clear, mother affected) xY males (affected) and xX daughters (carriers.) XY to Xx (father clear, mother carrier) half the males affected (xY) and half clear (XY); half females clear (XX) and half carriers (Xx) XY to XX (father and mother both genetic clears) all offspring clear. Note that all female offspring of affected males are
obligate carriers (if not affected.) Likewise, any female who has an affected son is a carrier. Non-affected sons of affected fathers are genetically clear. These
treatments are given when acute kidney failure due to heat stroke is suspected.
furosemide is a coating agent that can be used to limit gastrointestinal
bleeding.
Sucralfate and are drugs that can be used to decrease acid secretion by the stomach and reduce the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. Cimetidine omeprazole Antibiotics may be administered to treat suspected bacterial infection. Dextrose (sugar) may be added to your dog's intravenous electrolyte solution to prevent or treat low blood sugar concentration (hypoglycemia). The short-acting
anti-convulsant
agent may be recommended for seizures. Other seizure medications such as may also be
needed if diazepam is ineffective. diazepam Phenobarbital The
anti-arrhythmic agent may be used to treat certain heart rhythm disturbances (rapid ventricular tachycardia). Human Genome Project Presented by the National Center for Biotechnology
Information (NCBI). NCBI creates public databases, conducts research in computational
biology, develops software tools for analyzing genome data,
and disseminates biomedical information for the better understanding of
molecular processes affecting human health and disease. Human Genome
Resources Advantages of Spaying and Neutering A Mississippi State University publication intended to assist in the study of the formation of the egg and the avian embryo. Incubation procedures show you the effects of heat, moisture, and
ventilation upon the development of the chick embryo. Avian
Embryo Canine health links of interest Canine Health Foundation
(AKCCHF) Cat Breed Descriptions (Purebred Cats, Pedigreed Cats) Cat Breed Descriptions They make a sound called a "chortle," which is a cross between a yodel and
a murmur. The basenji is a medium to small dog that looks like a small deer. The body is compact with erect ears and a curled tail. A deeply furrowed forehead
gives the dog a look of distinction
and the hair coat is smooth and glossy. The most common colors are red and white, black and white and black, tan and white.
The adult basenji stands around 17 inches at the shoulder and weighs about 20 to 22
pounds. The
basenji is an intelligent and agile dog. Despite
being a quiet breed, they are quite playful and active. Some were used to work with flocks, while others were used as guardians. Now, and for the last 150 years, there is a tendency to
produce dogs with a determined physical appearance to match the ideals of a particular breed. There are now, at least, 300 different breeds around the world. Due to this evolution some breeds have faded away, while some new ones have come to the fore.Below is a list of Dog Questions with the relation Answer. We have 100s of them. When was the first dog tamed? Apply an ice pack to the dog's head, and
soaked towels or any other form of fabric to their
body. If at all possible, get him into a tub of cool water -- again, cool - not cold! However, in an extreme emergencey if cold is all there is, use it. If none of this is working, a cool water enema can help to cool the dog internally. Be careful not to induce to rapidly, or with water cooler than a few degrees below body temp, or you can put your dog into serious shock. Dogs that have
cardiovascular conditions should always consult a veterinarian before purchasing and using natural remedies. Many heart medications contain herbal remedies that have been
proven to help. One well formulated supplement to consider is How to Treat Canine Stroke Anderson, Deborah Dog Stroke "Dog
Stroke has multiple causes with symptoms that range from behavioral change
to difficulty
moving. Diagnosis must be done by a veterinarian with treatment focused on the
underlying cause of the stroke." Every stroke has different signs and symptoms, that are based on the type of stroke, the part of the brain affected, and the size of the damaged area.
This can
also be a sign
of a phantom pregnancy, when a female may begin to show signs of being pregnant even if she's not, so watch if this happens, but it usually resolves itself in a few weeks after the cycle ends. Males are great early warning detectors and can smell the change
in a female's hormones before she fully comes into
heat. The vulva can show some swelling, but it is quite variable, some girls
hardly swell at all, while others swell up like a golf ball. Tail flagging is
another sign. Specialized tests of clotting function including prothrombin time (OSPT), partial thromboplastin time (APTT), platelet count, fibrinogen, and fibrin degradation products to identify the presence of
disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), which may complicate heat stroke. The presence of "fibrin degradation products" indicates that fibrin
(the active form of the blood clotting protein fibrinogen) has been broken down and supports the diagnosis of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Spaying and neutering can eliminate or reduce the incidence of health problems that can be very difficult or expensive to treat. Spaying female dogs and cats eliminates the
possibility of uterine or ovarian cancer and greatly reduces the incidence of breast cancer, particularly when your pet is spayed before the first estrous cycle. Neutering male dogs reduces the incidence of prostrate cancer and prostate disorders. To combat this, the American Protection Institute in
Sacramento, Calif., has launched a national initiative,
called "My Dog Is Cool," to warn pet owners
to leave
their animals home when the weather is hot. The
initiative
is backed by the Nissan car company, and includes prominent warnings in
their new car manuals.   The initiative's Web site, , allows viewers to enter their ZIP code to find out the current temperature and whether there is a heat alert, offers fliers and
posters detailing the problem,
includes a photo page and provides information on lobbying automobile manufacturers to include information in their manuals. Two recognized exceptions are those of the dachshund, from 7 to 8 months, and German shepherd from 4 to 5 months.The female receives
the semen from different males for a whole
week, if she has the opportunity of course, and only then her ovules can be fecundated. This explains why a litter may be formed not only of pure breed puppies,
but also half-breeds. This means that as an owner, you have to watch carefully, even
after the pure breed male has done his job. Apart from that, in a mixed litter with the participation of several fathers, those puppies from a pure breed will be absolutely perfect. Though some breeder may doubt, those puppies will have no defect. An Alaskan Malamute can be aggressive to other animals and domineering to other dogs, but she can never be aggressive to people and should be responsive to
training. Dogs that are very shy or fearful, dogs that are domineering, and dogs that have an atypical energy level for the breed can pass these characteristics along to their pups. Thus familiarity with and attention to the breed standard is critical in deciding if Princess should be bred. Finding a
stud dog Easiest
place to find a stud dog is in the neighborhood, but
easiest is rarely best, especially since you want the stud dog to be as healthy as your bitch, to have a good temperament, and to be a good example of the breed. A hormone is a substance secreted by a gland that acts on an organ. The sexual cycle depends completely in sexual hormones, which are different in the male and female.The
hormonal regulation: These hormones are secreted by the ovaries during heat. Their function is
to stimulate the hypothalamus, which will secrete other hormones that will provoke ovulation.In the female Estrogens: It is
secreted by the yellow body, in the moment of ovulation. It is indispensable for gestation.Progesterone: These are secreted
by the
hypophysis gland. These are two: the FSH, that stimulated the
growth of the
follicles and is used for therapeutic ends, and the LH that unleashed ovulation.The
Gonadotropines: Can
an abortion be performed?  Does abortion lead to any risks?  Female Dog Labor It is difficult to deteHow do we know the exact day for labor?  rmine the exact date, unless mating was provoked. On the day of labor the female seems anxious, breathless and wants to hide. It is precise to leave the dog alone, after preparing a box with covers. From the first puppy until the last one an interval of about 36 hours must pass. Only an x-ray will
allow us to know
if there are any remaining fetuses. It is precise to know that due to the
domestication of this animal, the female's behavior has been greatly modified, especially
with giving birth and in her relationship with the puppies. Sometimes we are unfair
female dogs that are not maternal, but this is not fair: we should also
have in mind
the intervention of the owner in this process from the past generations. The domestication made some instinctive behaviors
disappear; behaviors that helped the puppy survive in difficult conditions. The typical example is the rejection of food by the mother in order to feed her puppies after weaning: when the puppies find the food in the mother's mouth, it is not necessary for the puppies to regurgitate it. It is precise, therefore, not to interfere too much with the female's
reproductive instincts, but we must make the process easier. The owner must help the female, but not make her dependable. It is also very important to know the
limitations and to know when it is
necessary to call the veterinarian in
order to resolve a medical problem. At this stage, he vulva may become slightly smaller and she may not have as much discharge or have a clear discharge instead of bloody, but she'll still be in heat and can still become pregnant. I thought my dog was over
her heat, but she is having bloody discharge again and it's only been a few weeks? Typically, when your dog has her first
heat, it will be a "split heat" in which she will develop a swollen vulva and have bloody discharge but she won't actually ovulate (release eggs) or let male dogs mount her. Time and temperature and humidity are critical factors in the
development of heat stroke in pets. And once the animal's cells reach 107 degrees it is crucial
for any chance of recovery to lower that temperature as fast as possible. Otherwise death will result no matter what you do to try to save the animal. SIGNS OF HEAT STROKE Signs of heat stroke are intense, rapid panting, wide eyes,
salivating, staggering and weakness. Advanced heat stroke victims will collapse and become unconscious. The gums will appear pale and dry. If heat stroke is suspected and you can take the animal's temperature rectally, any temperature above 106 degrees is dangerous. If your dog has mild heat illness (rectal temperature of more than
102.5 F but less than 105 F), therapy may entail rest, increased air
circulation using a fan, fresh water to drink and careful observation. With temperatures between 105 to 107 F,
hospitalization and aggressive medical therapy likely will be recommended. If
complications (arrhythmias, kidney failure, liver failure, gastrointestinal bleeding, cerebral edema, and/or disseminated intravascular coagulation) have occurred, additional treatments
will be necessary.
Dogs with temperatures greater than 107 F should be treated more
aggressively. Cooling can be accomplished externally with cool water baths,
application of alcohol to the footpads, enhanced air circulation using a fan, and careful placement of ice packs over areas with large superficial
blood vessels (neck, groin, armpit). Usually adult fleas begin feeding a few minutes after
infesting a new host, and mating females begin to produce eggs 24-48 h following their first blood meal. It follows that selamectin with an about 98% adulticidal efficacy
24-36 h after application, may provide only a short period over which flea eggs
can be produced and shed into the environment. A complete blood count (CBC or hemogram) to assess the severity of
dehydration and cardiovascular stress. Tests of coagulation including: activated
coagulation time (ACT); prothrombin time (OSPT); partial thromboplastin time (APTT); serum fibrinogen concentration; platelet count; and fibrin
degradation products (FDPs) to identify the presence of
disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) a life-threatening body-wide failure of blood clotting that is often a complication of heat stroke. Problems that can develop later in life, such as mammary cancer and uterine infections, are virtually eliminated if an ovariohysterectomy (spay) is performed before she experiences her
first heat cycle. Here's one of Tippy's friends whose owner Didn't get him Life's Abundance Daily Nutritional System Is Your dog or cat ashamed of
what they are
eating for dinner tonight? If so, then perhaps it's time they tried the Life's Abundance
food & supplements...... Our daily dog or cat
nutritional systems ensure that your pet gets all the nutrients needed to stay healthy. Here are some cold summer facts: The
temperature
ina parked car can reach 160 degrees in a matter of minutes, even with partially opened windows. Andany pet exercising on a hot, humid day, even with plenty of water, can become overheated.Overheating often leads to heat stroke. As a pet owner, you should know the dangers of overheating and what to do
to prevent it. You should also know the signs of heat stroke and what to do if your pet
exhibits those signs. :At Even Higher Risk are Puppies up to 6 months of age dogs and cats (black color retains heat) Dogs that have a thick coat, heart and lung problems or a short
muzzle are
at greater risk for heat stroke . The following signs may be seen during the pre-labor period, indicating the approaching whelping. 1. The bitch becomes restless, getting up, lying down, and changing her position frequently. She may vomit from nervousness. 2.
She may paw and scratch at her bedding as if she were preparing a nest. She may tear newspaper up into little pieces in her attempt to make a nest.
As well as these androgenic, or
masculinising effects, testosterone also drives anabolic, or tissue-building, changes. These include thickening of the vocal chords, growth spurts, development of
sexual libido, and an increase in strength and muscle bulk. There's
no denying these powerful physical
effects
which continue well into adulthood, and their driving force, hormones.
But we feel compelled to box our hormones resolutely into those that belong to men, or to women. Estrogen and progesterone are the so-called female sex hormones, and testosterone, the so-called primary male sex hormone. With that we assign our hormones impossible gender roles. But of course gender ain't that simple, and nor are our hormones. * is a common condition in dogs characterized by low
counts. Platelets are used in clotting the blood, so dogs with this
condition may have spontaneous bleeding or prolonged bleeding following surgery, injury,
or during an . Causes include some infections such as , cancers such as , or immune-mediated disease. Thrombocytopenia
platelet estrous cycle rickettsial ehrlichiosis hemangiosarcoma [41] * is a
condition characterized by an excess of platelets.
The female dog will make it pretty evident when she is ready to copulate by showing a great interest in male dogs and by lifting her tail showing her vulva and occasionally a liquid segregates from it. The best option is to put the female dog on the male dog's territory. This is done because often times a male dog will not want to copulate in the territory of another dog. Be careful not to make them stand on hot pavement for long periods of
time, and keep walks to a minimum on hot asphalt.   Be sensitive to old and overweight animals in hot weather. Snub-nosed dogs (like Pekingese, bull dogs, Boston terriers, Lhasa apsos and Shih tzus) and those with heart or lung diseases
should be kept indoors and in air conditioning if possible.   If you and your dog go to the beach, be sure you can find
shade and plenty of fresh water. Watch for a decreasing amount of discharge, a change in color
from red to brown, and a change in consistency from
watery to mucoid
(resembling mucus). It should never have an
odor. Your dog will expel most of the discharge in the first two weeks, but you may see small amounts over the following
four to six weeks. Most, but not all cats who are sexually mature, indicate this through some changes in their behavior.
For a young male, this is through , roaming, and toward other males who impinge on his domain.
These types of behavior begin to appear even before some of the physical characteristics
related to sexual maturity develop. Tomcats often develop jowls (prominent cheeks) and a
broad head. Unaltered males are more muscular and may develop a greasy patch of fur at the base of their tail in a condition called . Female cats are called . They usually reach sexual maturity about the same age as males. A young dog, aged from 6 to 9 months, should be checked immediately if it shows any soreness in its back end after exercise. These dogs usually will be back to normal in a week's time, but this is the time of the dog's
life when if it is needed- corrective surgery can prevent hip dysplasia. The surgery can no longer be done on a dog over a year old.     Don't dismiss your pet's stiffness as arthritis and think you can do nothing. There is nothing harder than being forced, because of paralysis in the back, to put one's best friend of many years to sleep even though he or she is bright and alert, but that's what joint disease can come to. appear to mature
faster than large ones, which usually cycle later. It is not uncommon for large-breed females to come into heat for the first
time at more than 1 year of age, although 8 to 9 months is the norm. Dogs are sexually mature between 6 months and 1 year but are not socially mature until they are about 2 years of age. Females first cycle anywhere from 6 to 18 months of age and approximately twice a year thereafter. The only
exception is the African basenji, which cycles annually, bearing one litter
a year. You must be committed to spending several hours a day with it.How much time can you spend with it? If you live in a
small apartment, you must take this into consideration: many dogs will not do well unless you expend a good deal of effort
in meeting their needs. Dogs can be pretty adaptable so long as *you* help them out. Don't be fooled by size into thinking a dog will be OK in a small apartment -- Jack Russell Terriers require a LOT of exercise. Conversely, many Mastiffs
are content to flop on the floor and do nothing at all while you are gone.What space can you
provide it? You may notice a greenish?black uterine discharge, which is normal. If contractions last longer than one hour or rest periods last longer than four hours, you may need your veterinarian to step in and help. You should also consult your veterinarian if your dog has not delivered a puppy an hour and a half after the watery fluid is expelled. If you see a black, thick discharge and your dog has not shown signs of labor, call your
veterinarian immediately. During the third stage of labor, your dog will expel the placentas. She may eat the placentas and chew the umbilical cords free from the puppies. 6 Section: Follow-up Optimal treatment for your dog requires a
combination of home
and professional veterinary care. Follow-up is crucial. Administer any medications prescribed by your veterinarian and contact your veterinarian if you are experiencing problems treating your dog. Observe your dog's activity level and appetite. Monitor his skin for bruising and gums for pinpoint hemorrhages. Your dog should be re-examined after 3 to 7 days to evaluate serum biochemical tests
and an electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG) if arrhythmias were detected during hospitalization. The actual follow-up procedure employed will depend on the severity of your dog's heat illness, his response to therapy, and your veterinarian's recommendations. By RV - A dog's safety should not depend on the air conditioning and generator systems in an RV or motor
home. These devices can malfunction,
with tragic results. If you leave your dog in an RV with the generator running, check it often or have a neighbor monitor it. Some manufacturers have devices that will notify you if the generator should malfunction. Never leave an RV or motor home completely shut up, even if the generator and AC are running. Please read and understand these instructions
completely before attempting the first aid procedures described herein (Added:
19-Oct-2003 Hits: 861 Rating: 1.00 Votes: 1) Rate It First Aid Kit - First Aid Kit and courses in Australia. Low prices and overnight delivery. (Added: 16-Mar-2005 Hits: 497 Rating: 0 Votes: 0) Rate It First aid kit - Dog owners can treat minor injuries for their pets if they have the appropriate remedies, tools, and equipment
available. The following items were included in a first aid kit that the Cincinnati Veterinary Medical Association gave to police dog handlers at a recent workshop.