The result of not seeking treatment could be kidney failure or brain damage." Symptoms of Dog
Heat Stroke Excessive panting Salivation Body temperature of 104or more Collapse Diarrhea Vomiting
Increased, thumping heart rate Depression Stupor or appearing in a daze Seizures Coma
Heatstroke is usually
seen in the months between May and July. Provides links to a variety of sites related to the
study of human DNA.
Presented by Harvard University, Department of
Molecular & Cellular Biology. Human Biomolecular & Biochemical Databases Normal and
abnormal mammalian development
tutorial that uses scanning
electron micrographs (SEMs) as the primary resource to teach mammalian embryology. Human
Embryo Images Make sure outside cats and dogs have access to shade. Allow your cat and dog to
have access to cooler areas of the
house. Signs: Rapid
panting Bright red tongue Red or
pale gums Thick, sticky saliva Depression Weakness Dizziness Vomiting - sometimes with blood
Diarrhea Shock Coma There are several things you can do to prevent heat related problems for
your pet: Section: Overview
Diagnostic tests are needed to diagnose heat stroke and assess the extent of vital organ
dysfunction, including:Diagnosis A complete medical history and thorough physical examination,
including rectal temperature. A
complete blood count
(CBC or hemogram) to assess
the severity of dehydration and cardiovascular stress. Tests of coagulation including:
activated coagulation time (ACT); prothrombin time (OSPT); partial thromboplastin time
(APTT); serum fibrinogen
concentration; platelet count; and fibrin degradation products (FDPs) to identify the presence of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) a life-threatening
body-wide failure of blood clotting that is
often a complication of heat stroke. Then transport your pet to a veterinary hospital. If
available, turn on the air conditioner in the car to help cool your pet on the way to the
veterinarian. If not treated immediately, pets can experience failure of multiple organ
systems. As the kidneys, intestinal tracts, liver, heart, and brain become overheated, they cease functioning normally which can ultimately result in death. 6 Section: Follow-up Optimal treatment for your dog requires a combination of home and professional veterinary care. Follow-up is crucial. Administer
any medications prescribed by your
veterinarian and contact your
veterinarian if you are experiencing problems treating your dog. Observe your dog's
activity level and appetite. Monitor his skin for bruising and gums for pinpoint hemorrhages. Your dog should be re-examined after 3 to 7 days to evaluate serum
biochemical tests and an electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG) if arrhythmias were detected
during hospitalization.
Becoming chilled is the greatest
danger facing a healthy newborn
puppy because its immature circulatory
system cannot sustain an adequate body temperature. For this reason, newborn puppies tend to
stay close to their mother or cuddle together for warmth. Mothers clean, nurse, and defend
their pups until they can live on their own, but fathers do not involve themselves in the
care of the young. It took them up and over a hill approximately 1/2 mile from me. Mace came
back within a few minutes but was looking and acting disoriented. She was panting excessively
hard and was having a difficult time standing. I
knew at once that she
had overheated herself and began looking for a
way to cool her down. RESPIRATORY SYSTEM The lungs take up the most part of the thorax
cavity. The muscles that control the breathing (the diaphragm and some muscles of the body) get dilated and contracted in a spectacular way when the dog is making
any effort. DIGESTIVE SYSTEM The dog's digestive system begin in its strong jaws and its
powerful teeth. Increased
suppression of adrenal glands
if used with corticosteroids
May increase amount of insulin needed to
control diabetes mellitus No known
food interactions No
specific information is available. Contact your veterinarian or the Animal Poison Control
Center if you think your pet may have accidentally received or been given an overdose of the
medication.Overdose/Toxicity  Every stroke
has different signs and symptoms, that are based on the type of stroke, the part of the brain affected, and the size of the damaged area. Dog Stroke Symptoms * Head
tilt * Turning the wrong way
when called * Eating out of
one side of his food
bowl * Loss of balance * Lethargy * Blindness * Loss of bladder and bowel control * Sudden
behavioral changes Never, EVER underestimate your dog's susceptibility to heat stroke. Limit
their exposure to temperatures which you
might personally find only mildly hot, be
conscious of your dog's proximity to hot pavement,
NEVER leave your Frenchie in a locked car in even warm weather, and always allow them lots of
access to fresh water, shade, and cool areas to escape from heat. Avoid biting when a simple
growl will do.      On warm days, stop to lay on your back on the grass.      On hot days,
drink lots of water and lay under a shady
tree.      When you're happy, dance around
and wag your entire body.      No matter how often you're scolded, don't buy into the guilt thing and pout...run right back and make friends. Dartz said dogs, rabbits and ferrets are very susceptible to heat stroke, but it isn't as common in cats. Both veterinarians said heat stroke begins with the animal
becoming disoriented and
agitated, along with salivating,
heavy panting and bright red
gums. As it progresses, the animal may experience bloody diarrhea or vomit, depression,
stupor, collapse and finally, go into a coma. There's no denying these powerful physical
effects which continue well into adulthood, and their
driving force, hormones. But we feel
compelled to box our hormones resolutely
into those that belong to men, or to women. Estrogen and progesterone are the so-called
female sex hormones, and testosterone, the so-called primary male sex hormone. With that
we assign our hormones impossible gender roles. NB: There is, in addition, the Lagotto
(Italian Water Dog), recently accepted by
FCI as a separate breed; also noted: the Bolognese.
Come-lately cousins Cockerpoo
Cross between
American Cocker Spaniel and Miniature Poodle, "not given to the hyperactive excesses of
many American Cocker Spaniels"; lower incidence of skin problems than the American Cocker. Fogle, p.
Although most dog lovers out
there are fairly educated about the subject, I feel that we all need a refresher course once
in a while. Canine Bloat (Gastric Dilation
or GDV) is a very dangerous disorder of the canine digestive system. Unfortunately the
reasons behind this disorder seem to be somewhat puzzling and not so clear, but we have
gathered some information about the disorder and the symptoms that may be helpful for all dog
lovers. These tests insure optimal medical care and are selected on a case-by-case basis.
Examples include: Additional Tests Complete blood count (CBC or hemogram) to evaluate your
dog's hydration and to evaluate for the presence of blood loss, low platelet concentration or
inflammation. Serum biochemistry tests including tests of kidney function (blood urea
nitrogen, serum creatinine and serum phosphorus concentrations), liver function (alanine
aminotransferase, aspartate
aminotransferase, alkaline
phosphatase) and muscle function (creatine kinase).
 As you know Dog Copulation and Mating is part of the
Reproduction of dogs and it is always an exciting and gratifying experience to see our female
dogs have their babies in our homes. However, this is something that should not be taken
lightly. Before allowing your dog to procreate, you must think about the future of the puppies
and ask yourself if you are sure you will be able to find the appropriate owner for all of
them; remember that dogs usually have several puppies. Mildly increased temperature (less than
105 F) may only
require rest, a fan to increase air circulation, fresh water to drink and careful
observation. Temperatures of 105 to 107 F should be hospitalized on intravenous fluids
and other medications. Markedly increased temperature
(greater than 107 F)
must be treated more
aggressively. Cooling can be promoted externally by immersion in cool water, or internally by
administering a cool water enema. Learn the
basics of lyme disease dog treatment, symptoms, prevention and more. The Dog Health Guide
provides common sense practical approaches to understanding dog health issues. Lyme
Disease Dog If you see signs of Dog Mange, the best diagnosis is to see if you dog responds
to treatment. Learn about the diagnosis, symptoms and
treatment options (home and vet)
of this disease. Also, how early
can a female go into heat and does it happen every six months or does it vary? ~~Debmaran
Expert Reply Hi Deb, Let me start with your second question. While it is not a hard rule, most females come into their first heat cycle around six months of age,
although I have had girls wait as long as one to one and a half years old. When this number
is compared to 10,000 human births each day,
it is clear that there can never be enough homes for all these pets. Each year more than
12,000,000 dogs, cats, puppies and kittens are left
at animal shelters
around the country. Nearly, 8,000,000 have
to be euthanized because there are not enough homes for all of them. It is precise to
know that due to the domestication of this animal, the female's behavior has been greatly
modified, especially with giving birth and in her relationship with the puppies. Sometimes we
are unfair female dogs that are not maternal, but this is not fair: we should also have in
mind the intervention of the owner in this process from the past generations. The domestication
made some instinctive behaviors disappear;
behaviors that helped the puppy survive in difficult
conditions. The typical example is the rejection of food by the mother in order to feed her
puppies after weaning: when
the puppies find the food in
the mother's mouth, it is not necessary for the puppies to regurgitate it. It is precise,
therefore, not to interfere too much with
the female's
reproductive instincts, but we must make
the process easier. The owner must help the female, but not make her dependable. It is
also very important to know the limitations and to know when it is necessary to call the
veterinarian in order to resolve a medical problem.   Having evolved in origin and
species and using domestication history as a start line, we then focus on the dog's body
analyzing in detail its anatomic
structure, its external aspect and its
organs before making a deep examination of its intelligence and abilities, dedicating a complete
section to the "dog's language".
Dog Heat Cycle Period     The first signs in young females appear usually between six and 8
months, though heat period properly does not appear till 10 to 12 months. Register the
appearance of this signs in your female, so you won't be surprised when heat period arrives;
you can fit your schedules to it (trips).
This principle of evaporation is very important in
many cooling systems and
particularly in the cooling of the body. If, however, the major problem ceases to be that of
getting rid of excess heat, but rather maintaining what heat is produced in the chemical
reactions in the body, one has to look to different techniques. Purebred or mixed-breed
dogs If the dog's breed is not important to you, you should still consider the above list
when choosing the dog. You do face a few more unknowns since a mixed-breed puppy (e.g., a
"mutt") may or may not clearly
exhibit what its
adult characteristics
will be. there were already tamed dogs; and in
Denmark and Germany some primitive
remainders have been found recently. One of the most emotional discoveries took place in
Israel, where a young dog was found in a grave
alongside his owner. In fact, the
use of dogs as guards spread out quickly all over the world. Somewhere around the year 5000
B.C., dogs remains brought by ancient colonists
were found in North America. temperature of the fat associated with the foot and leg as
compared to the melting temperature of body fat.
The best example of this noted in the case of
neatsfoot oil which is the fat from the foot of a cow as compared to the tallow which is the
fat from the body of the cow. As you remember, neatsfoot oil is a liquid at normal room
temperature, whereas tallow is
solid. An environmental spray was
not used with selamectin. Treatment of control animals with inactive ingredient was not
applicable in the veterinary field
study because of ethical considerations. Cats in the USA experiment were treated topically
with pyrethroids. Dogs and cats treated with selamectin showed a reduction of infestation
between 90.7% and 99.8% for the whole period
of observation. This occurs more or less at
random, so any female
mammal has patches of cells with
one X chromosome
inactivated, and patches with the other not active. If the gene being discussed codes for an
enzyme that is spread throughout the body, it may not be obvious that the different
patches of cells are behaving differently, and we will get what looks like dominant,
recessive, or intermediate inheritance. Once pregnant, the cycle of estrous behavior stops.
The normal gestation
time for cats is 64 to 69 days, roughly two
months. Around the time for delivery (), the female will seek out a secluded nest. It may be
in a closet, under the shrubs, in the hayloft, or in the center of your bed. In contrast, some
dogs who do not learn very quickly may have other talents. An example is breeds that are
not particularly interested in pleasing their owners,
such as Siberian Huskies. Huskies are often fascinated with the myriad of possibilities for
escaping from yards,
catching small animals, and often figuring out on their own numerous inventive ways of doing both. Limited one-year manufacturer warranty. Cover is made from
fleece-like material, preshrunk and washable.
Cover is breathable, won't warp
pad. Note: For use in confined space, order a size which is approximately half the space size so that
your pet an
opportunity to get off of the heated surface if it desires. Now, and for the last 150 years,
there is a tendency to produce dogs with a
determined physical appearance to match the
ideals of a particular breed. There are now, at least, 300 different breeds around the
world. Due to this evolution some breeds have faded away, while some new ones have come to
the fore.Below is a
list of Dog Questions
with the relation Answer. We
have 100s of them. When was the first dog tamed? Your dog's doctor will want to take a radiograph and possibly perform some other tests to make sure the stomach isn't suffering from any foreign objects. One of the hardest things to find is string, wrapped around the base of the tongue and hanging down the
throat to the stomach. In dogs it affects the gastrointestinal system and lymph nodes, and
rarely the skin. Pythiosis
water mould Pythium P. insidiosum
[22] is a collection of fungal and mold diseases in dogs including pythiosis,
zygomycosis, and lagenidiosis that affect the gastrointestinal tract and skin. Mucormycosis [6] [] edit
Protozoal diseases * is an intestinal
infection in dogs caused by the . Temperatures inside a parked car can rapidly reach
dangerous levels, even on relatively mild days, and even if the car is parked in the shade with
the windows slightly open.
Dark-colored cars especially can become very
hot inside - even on days that do not seem
too hot to take your dog along.
In just minutes, the
temperature inside a parked car can climb to well over 120 degrees or more.   Physiology of
Canine Reproduction  The sexual
cycle in Dogs:It includes the time of heat, but also the times of resting. Female dogs have two periods of heat a year, every six months, which last about 2-3 weeks
each. Their first heat appears between 6 and 15 months after birth, and the dog can be
fertilized since this time. The appearance of
heat is produced later on in the larger breeds, since these have a longer growth. The puppy
will be contained within this membranous sac. The mother should chew the membranes from
around the newborn puppy and free
it from the sac. She should then
bite the umbilical cord in half and lick the
puppy dry. This will stimulate the puppy to breathe and cry. She may then eat the membranous
sac. Some females will be a little more aggressive
during their heat period, but most show no change in behavior and interaction with their
owners. Having puppies is great if you want the puppies or if you're trying to develop a
special line of dogs. But there
is no behavioral benefit in letting the female have a litter before spaying. Typically,
when your dog has her first heat, it will be a
"split heat" in which she will develop a
swollen vulva and have bloody discharge but she won't actually ovulate (release eggs) or
let male dogs mount her. But
about 2 to 6 weeks later you'll probably notice that she's in heat again; this is your dog's
first real full heat cycle. You and your veterinarian will have to evaluate your dog's rectal
temperature, heart rate and rhythm, respiratory rate, blood pressure, urine output, level of
consciousness, pinpoint hemorrhages on the gums or bruising of the skin, vomiting, diarrhea
or gastrointestinal bleeding. The
anti-clotting medication heparin may be recommended
to prevent disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) or if your dog is in the early stages
of this life-threatening
complication. Older pets
(large breed dogs over 7
years of age, small breed dogs over 14 years of age) Pets with heart disease.Black If your
pet is overheating, he will appear sluggish and unresponsive. He may appear disorientated.
The gums, tongue and conjunctiva of the eyes may be bright red and he will probably be
panting hard. The first puppy will enter your dog's pelvic canal, stimulating her to push
more aggressively. As each puppy
is expelled, your dog will usually break the thin, whitish membrane surrounding the puppy.
Puppies may suffocate if these membranes are not removed from their nostrils shortly after
birth. The normal interval
between the delivery of puppies is 30 to 60 minutes. You will also benefit from a thorough
knowledge of and Vital (life) signs are very
important. They tell you and other medical personnel about the patient's present condition. By maintaining a record of a patient's vital signs, the effectiveness of
the medical treatment that the
patient receives can be evaluated. Try to avoid prolonged exposure to hot asphalt or sand,
which can burn your dog's paws. Dogs that
are brachycephalic (short-faced),
such as Bulldogs,
Boxers, Japanese Chins, and
Pekingese, have an especially hard time in the heat because they do not pant as efficiently
as longer-faced dogs. Keep your brachycephalic dog inside with air-conditioning. Like
cats, these dogs are independent, but they
do not enjoy quiet time alone. The basenji is an
affectionate dog but may not be the best choice for families with very young children. If
appropriately socialized, the
breed can live well with older children. Wary of strangers, the breed is a good watchdog,
alerting owners of approaching intruders with
their strange vocalizations. It is precise to leave
the dog alone, after preparing a box with covers. From the first puppy until the last one an
interval of about 36 hours must pass. Only an x-ray will allow us to know if there are any remaining fetuses. Call the vet, but DO NOT pull the puppy out. It is
preferable, since some females can hurt the
puppies if they pull the cord too
hard. If you need to tie off a kitten's
umbilical cord, use thread or dental floss and a pair of scissors. The mother will clean
the kitten and detach the umbilical cord from the placenta in plenty of time, unless two
kittens are born in quick succession. In
this case, you can wipe the kittens' noses and mouths
free from fluid and
membranes, watch for breathing, and let the mother continue with her thing. Or if she a bit
small or large for the breed standard, she should be bred to a dog that is the correct size. Temperament
Since temperament is
also inherited , even if Puffin is a perfect
physical example of the breed, she must have the typical breed temperament in order to be a
good candidate for breeding. A
Cocker Spaniel should be happy-go-lucky, sweet, good with children, and relatively responsive
to training. the number of puppies and whether
live or stillborn, assisted or unassisted delivery, abortion), as well as the vaccination
history; results of previous Brucella canis serologic testing; and information about the
animal's housing and diet are
important for determining potential causes of
pregnancy losses. The physical examination
will indicate the general health and nutritional status of the bitch as well as the
possibility of any concurrent
disease process.