As a start, the web site includes automated bidding functions, recruitment/exams, and lots of County forms as well as links to web sites containing State and Federal forms. The forms can be filled out when
it convenient for people rather than them having to drive to County
offices
during
their
busy day. The County has more services planned; currently under development is a County Parks Reservation System that will
be available early in
2004. Please use the form on the left, and throughout our site, to make a donation by credit card over our secure donation page Here are some of the things people have said about the services they receive. “The Respite Program is a blessing. It fosters independence, commitment and learning to socialize with peers. It supports the children’s self-esteem and promotes health goals.” “Adult Advocacy provided me with services during a very stressful time in my
life…the
advocacy skills and knowledge of the
system were very impressive.” Wallace Visitor and Education Center, part of the FDR Presidential Home, Library & Museum ().  Get a glimpse into the world of former President Roosevelt, who always listed his occupation as “tree farmer.”  www.nps.gov/hofr Also in Hyde Park, make sure you visit the Vanderbilt Mansion National Historic Site () for a peek at
how the richest man in America lived during the “Gilded Age.”  More than 50 local workers were required to cook,
clean, and oversee the grounds and farm, where the Vanderbilt’s grew much of their own food and all the flowers for their lavish arrangements. All information from Vassar College’s Tourist Information Center is provided free-of-charge. Please join us for a ribbon-cutting ceremony on Tuesday, January 27th at noon.  Light refreshments will be provided. Individuals with disabilities requiring accommodations at Vassar should contact the Office of Campus Activities at (845) 437-5370. Directions to the Vassar campus
are available at . www.vassar.edu/directions Vassar College is a highly selective, coeducational, independent, residential
liberal arts
college founded in 1861. Loan Fund Focuses on “Green” There is now a loan fund for Dutchess County businesses that are planning upgrades and improvements that will reduce their energy consumption and/or for utilizing alternative energy. Known as the , the “green” fund can be accessed
through The Dutchess County Economic Development Corporation (DCEDC).Revolving Loan Fund
(RLF) See News and Events for details.
Beacon Brushless Car Wash, 285 Main Street, Beacon, NY 12508 Howland Cultural Center Building, 477 Main Street, Beacon. Built as a library in 1872, the architecture is described as "Norwegian-style"
with its
six-gabled
roof being
covered with
Delaware slate. The outside walls are constructed from red and black Croton brick interlaid with light Jersey brick. The library moved out
in 1976, with the building now being used for various community functions.  Continue down Clove Road to NY 55 (traffic light).  Cross NY
55; you are now on Beekman Road.  Drive several miles and take Sylvan Lake Road (CR 10) to the right.  Drive to the lake and stop.  Continue on Sylvan Lake Road to NY 82.  Driving distance: 20 miles.  Allow 2-3 hours.  Top of Page The mansion is lavishly decorated in a number of European motifs. 845-229-9115 Franklin
Delano Roosevelt Library and
Home The Colonial Revival house is the most famous house in the region. The ancestral home of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the 32nd president of the United States, the estate had been in his family since 1867. FDR was born and grew up here, and he always considered it his home. The site includes the home, a 35-room, 9-bathroom Georgian Revival style mansion, stables, extensive grounds, and rose garden, where the President and Mrs. Morse, whose patent of the electromagnetic telegraph revolutionized human
communication. Set on 150 acres, the Italianate villa was designed by architect Alexander Jackson Davis. House tours daily 10AM-3PM, May 1-Nov 30. Closed major holidays. Adults $9, youth (6-18) $5.Locust Grove+1 845 [8] , 124 Raymond Avenue,
437-7300, . Founded in 1861, Vassar College is a highly selective, residential, coeducational liberal arts college.
Consistently ranked among the top liberal arts colleges in the country, Vassar is renowned for pioneering achievements in
education, for its long
history of curricular innovation, and for the beauty of its campus.   fter having successfully marketed a wide range of full-scale projects during four different decades, Mid-Hudson Marketing draws expertise from a broad business perspective and years of hands-on experience. The firm began in downtown Poughkeepsie, New York in a small office in the GSA building adjacent to the Civic Center on Main Street. This was during the mid-seventies when the Civic
Center regularly welcomed some of the top musical acts of the time including Bruce Springsteen, James Taylor, and others. Smart Card Being a member of the Dutchess County Regional Chamber of Commerce comes with many benefits and one of them is
discounts on other membersproducts and
services. Simply carry your SmartCard, show it at these businesses and receive the discount mentioned below. That it! What
a great way
to save money, meet other Chamber businesses and hink local first!Don have your SmartCard or need a new one? Call 845-454-1700 ext. Won’t you please consider becoming a member or renewing your membership in the MHA? Together, with caring staff and
a caring community, we can make a difference. Mental Health America in Dutchess County
is funded in part by Dutchess County Department of Mental Hygiene, Dutchess County Department of Social Services, Dutchess County Youth Bureau, HUD, Department of Health and other public and private funding sources. In all 50 states. It's easy. It's secure. ! Book a Room Book a Room Click here for the NY Visitors Network lodging members from across the state. SEARCH Searching our site is as easy as ABC. where you will be able to locate things by topic,
geography, category, etc. It
really is
easy! Visit our Search Page NY REAL
ESTATE
Looking to move to or relocate within NY? Try our Real Estate pages by visiting . You'll find links to realtors, organized by county of course. But Pelosi, Clinton and Rice continue to be the exception, rather than the rule. Actually, the U.S. lags other nations, such as Chile, German, Liberia and Jamaica, which have all sworn in women as heads of their federal governments, in the past year or so. In New York, the percentage of women in local government
office is still short of their proportion in the overall population, according to a recent study from the Susan B. Anthony Center for Women's Leadership at the University of Rochester. Relax, explore, experience and enjoy our bucolic farms,
vineyards and food markets.  Sample our mouth-watering restaurants.  Visit our quaint shops and galleries.  And stay
overnight in our local B&Bs which serve homemade fare using the freshest, local ingredients. Local farms not only add to the quality of life in
Dutchess County, they also generate millions of dollars in annual sales and provide a direct economic benefit to our area –
all while supplying a variety of fresh, great-tasting foods and beverages to chose from. 5770 Black Swan Club, Tivoli, NY, 845.757.3777 , Staatsburg Annex Antiques Center, Red Hook, NY, 845-758-2843 Broadway
Antiques & Collectibles, Red Hook, NY, 845-876-1444 Cider Mill Antiques, Red Hook, NY, 845-758-2599 Lafayette House Antiques, Red Hook, NY,
845-758-6024 Lightly Seasoned, Red Hook, NY, 845-758-1828 Rock City Relics Antique Center, Red Hook, NY, 845-758-8603 Jacaruso Studio, Red Hook, NY, (845) 758-9244 Pig Farm Photos & Framing, Red Hook, NY, (845)758-5554 Ron's
Snowmobile Sales & Service, Rhinebeck, NY, (845)758-5637 Riding, boarding, and training Willowbrook Farm, Riding, boarding, training, Clinton Corners, 845/266-4522 Calypso Farm Equestrian Center: boarding, lessons, training and children's summer
riding
program. They bill themselves as the “best little country fair in Michigan,” and they might just be right. A visit to this fair will include entertainment by rodeo shows, derby’s, and even truck/tractor
pulls!thth
Dutchess County Fair Believe it or not, there is more to New York State than the city itself. The Dutchess County Fair in Rhinebeck runs from August 19 through August 24. The county fair features traditional amusement attractions while at the same
time showcasing
their agriculture. Stop by for pony rides, to watch a cow being milked, or to learn how wool is dyed and weaved!thth