He understands that our
greatest strength lies not in our military prowess but our ability to create peace through mutual dialogue and understanding. Finally, Obama will free us from our dependence on foreign oil within 10 years through a comprehensive energy plan that focuses on renewable and sustainable energy instead of fossil
fuel, one that is not focused on drilling and the creation of nuclear power plants. It will be tough to do everything and we must sacrifice as Americans. However, they are necessarily steps to set this country back on the right path for the future.   I stand here today with Barack Obama not simply because this nation needs a new direction, but that we need a new leader, someone with the ability to inspire a world and unite a nation. History has taught us that words are powerful enough to unite and set a nation down a path of justice and equality; how a great leader can inspire an entire generation and lead courageously in the face of crisis. Barack Obama possesses that special ability to both lead with his actions and inspire with his words. Percent of Applicants Submitting SAT 86% Percent of Applicants Submitting ACT 14% TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language) required Occidental College has a tenure system for faculty. Salaries for full-time faculty: : salaries are not displayed where there are fewer than 3 professors in the category.* Occidental College Athletics
Southern California Intercoll Athletic Conference Basketball Southern California Intercoll Athletic Conference Baseball Southern California Intercoll Athletic Conference Track Southern California Intercoll Athletic Conference Occidental College Degree Programs (2005) However, they were turned over with the expectation the US would prevail in Iraq. Illinois Republican House member Mark Kirk, who wrote the bill for the
publicity campaign, said, "We're looking for some young Pashtun. . . [who] can figure out how to reach us safely."1 Allah be with you, young Pashtun. First, dial (92) 51-208-00000 for the American consulate in
Islamabad and ask for Crock, as US ambassador to Pakistan
Ryan Crocker will no doubt ask you to call him. Keep in mind, however, that you might find yourself negotiating away much of the bounty in exchange for protective custody for yourself, your family, and members of your clan. (It would be instructive to learn what has become of the Husseins, informant and his people.)
Furthermore, by the time such complex negotiations are completed, bin Laden is likely to have been re-safe-housed and the contract you were
hammering out will be rendered null and void. Perhaps, however, in keeping with US policy of using American contractors, that kind of money is actually intended to lure American mercenaries or bounty hunters. married couples In the county the population was spread out with 28.70% under the age of 18, 7.30% from 18 to 24, 25.70% from 25 to 44, 22.30% from 45 to 64, and 16.00% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 37 years. For every 100 females there were 104.40 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 102.60 males. The median income for a household in the county was $33,462, and the median income for a family was $41,034. Males had a median income of $27,523 versus $18,807 for females. The for the county was $16,720. About 11.20% of families and 14.80% of the population were below the , including 23.20% of those under age 18 and 4.70% of those age 65 or over. per capita income poverty line [] edit Cities and towns Obama was sworn in as a senator on January 4, 2005. Obama was the fifth African-American Senator in U.S. history, and the third
to have been . He was the only Senate member of the . a nonpartisan publication, characterized him as a "loyal Democrat" based on analysis of all Senate votes in 20052007, and the ranked him as the "most
liberal" senator based on an assessment of selected votes during 2007. In 2005 he was ranked sixteenth, and in 2006 he was ranked tenth. In 2008, Congress.org ranked him as the eleventh most powerful Senator. Your, my Osama Bin Laden is hiding behind the mountains of our hearts."8 However profound, coming just nine days after 9/11, he seemed like a waiter rushing us through dinner.
We needed time to digest the anger. At the other extreme was "Why We Should Love Osama Bin Laden," in which Kevin Williams, who maintains near-death.com, an otherwise estimable clearinghouse for near-death experiences, tells us: "Although I believe that Bin Laden should be captured and imprisoned, I believe that we should love the man as we should love everyone -- unconditionally. Political chaos, in turn, gave rise to dictatorial regimes such as Adolf Hitler's in Germany and the military's in Japan. (Totalitarian regimes in the Soviet Union and Italy predated the depression.) These regimes pushed the world ever-closer to war
in the 1930s. When world war finally broke out in both Europe and Asia, the United States tried to avoid being drawn into the conflict. But so powerful and influential a nation as the United States could scarcely avoid involvement
for long. When Japan attacked the U.S. Naval base at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, on December 7, 1941, the United States found itself in the war it had sought to avoid for more than two years. Mobilizing the economy for
world war finally cured the depression. Millions of men and women joined the armed forces, and even larger numbers went to work in well-paying defense jobs. Topics The widespread prosperity of the 1920s ended abruptly with the stock market crash in October 1929 and the great economic
depression that followed. The depression threatened people's jobs, savings, and even their homes and farms. At the depths of the depression, over one-quarter of the American workforce was out of work. For many Americans, these were hard times. Photographs from the FSA-OWI, 1935-1945 The New Deal, as the first two terms of Franklin Delano Roosevelt's presidency were called, became a time of hope and optimism. Although the economic depression continued throughout the New Deal era, the darkest hours of despair seemed to have passed. In part, this was the result of FDR himself. In his first inaugural address, FDR asserted his "firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself--nameless, unreasoning,
unjustified terror." As FDR provided leadership, most Americans placed great confidence in him. Michael Pfleger Father Bob Drinan At some point I expect science will allow mothers to test prenatally for homosexuality, and some sort of epic crisis of conscience will force Christendom to see humanity in a more nuanced light, in part because we'll all have much more pressing matters
to confront by that point, like the economic apocalypse and so on. Filed under: , , , , , , , Barack Obama gay marriage Jeremiah Wright peggy noonan barney frank Rick Warren michael pfleger bob drinan ., I quite agree that we haven't seen the last of the rev.; he'll be with us through November and beyond. But in trying to prove that Obama couldn't stand up to the Attack Machine, Hillary put him through a pretty good simulation and wound up proving that he can sobecause he just did. The person who "blows the whistle" most aggressively on this in 1858 is John Slidell, a Louisianan and a slaveholder. Slidell is a Buchanan lieutenant, and President James Buchanan sends him as his personal representative to work with the Buchananites in Illinois and spread around the news, or "dirt," on Douglas. The irony
is you have a Southern
slaveholder who's going
around Illinois telling people "Stephen A. So the glory
of democracy is the way
it functions as a means to
the higher goal of natural law. But it is a means, and there are certain elements of what are natural right and natural law which cannot be put to a vote. There are certain principles which
exist above the process. The
purpose of the process is to
realize the principles. It would almost be like saying, "Why do you own an automobile?" So you can turn the engine on and sit in it? Do you say this
automobile runs great? Okay, what next? Are you going to go somewhere in it? Stephen A. Douglas, if he was an automobile mechanic, would say, "We'll just let it go where it wants to go." Kapi'olani Medical Center for Women & Children Honolulu Hawaii [3] [4] Ann Dunham White American Wichita Kansas [5] English Irish [6] [7] Barack Obama, Sr. Luo Nyangoma Kogelo Nyanza Province Kenya University of Hawaii at Mnoa [8] [9] [10] [9] [11] After her divorce, Dunham married student , who was attending college in Hawaii. When , a military leader in Soetoro's home country, in 1967, all students studying abroad were recalled and the family moved to . There Obama attended local schools in , such as Besuki Public School and St. Francis of
Assisi School, until he
was ten years old. Indonesian Lolo Soetoro Soeharto came
to power Indonesia [12] Jakarta He then returned to Honolulu to live with his maternal grandparents, , while attending from the in 1971 until his graduation from high school in 1979. Obama's mother returned to Hawaii in 1972 for five years, and
then in 1977 went back to
Indonesia, where she worked as
an field worker. On
foreign policies, John McCain is a return to the old days of the cold war, where silence, stubbornness and threat of violence defined our policies rather than openness and the willingness to engage our enemies in talks instead of war. John McCain claims to be for justice and equality, yet he has consistently voted against a woman’s right to choose and against affirmative-action policies. John McCain portrays himself as a maverick and a reformer, yet he has voted over 90 percent of the time with
President Bush and has backed away from reform that he once championed, such as comprehensive immigration reform. 3 and went on to defeat Sen. Hillary Clinton in the toughest primary in recent history. Now we stand less than a week from Nov. 4, Election Day, and possible history in the making. I endorsed this man in the
primaries and I will continue to stand
by Barack Obama on the eve of the most important election in my life.   As a nation, we are dealing with the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, an illegal occupation of a foreign country and an underfunded war against terrorism in Afghanistan. During his three years as the DCP's director, its staff grew from one to thirteen and its annual budget grew from $70,000 to $400,000. His achievements included helping set up a job training program, a college preparatory tutoring program, and a tenants' rights organization in . Obama also
worked as a consultant and instructor for the , a community organizing institute. In mid-1988, he traveled for the first time to Europe for three weeks and then for five weeks in Kenya, where he met many
of his for the first time.
In 1967, the family moved to Jakarta, where Obama’s half-sister Maya Soetoro–Ng was born. Obama attended schools in Jakarta, where classes were taught in the Indonesian language. Four years later when Barack (commonly known throughout his early years as "Barry") was ten, he returned to Hawaii to live with his maternal grandparents, Madelyn and Stanley Dunham, and later his mother (who died of ovarian cancer in 1995). He was enrolled in the fifth grade at the esteemed Punahou
Academy, graduating with
honors in 1979. He was only one of three black students at the school. This is where Obama first became conscious of racism and what it meant to be an African–American. In his memoir, Obama described how he struggled to reconcile social perceptions of his multiracial heritage. He saw his biological father (who died in a 1982 car accident) only once (in 1971) after his parents divorced. Some time into the project, the school learned about . The school then hired a design consultant, John Hara ('57) for and found out that they could earn the LEED Gold certification. At the time, few projects
anywhere had earned this rating. Leadership in Energy and
Environmental Design [13] sustainability [14] [15] [16] The middle school also won the Energy Project of the Year award in the Seventh Energy Efficiency Awards, sponsored by . Hawaiian Electric Company [17] [18] Different methods were used in
addressing issues of sustainability within the building. Installed sensors shut off air conditioners if windows are opened to let in the breeze; the buildings are situated to take full use of the tradewinds, with the help of the . There are also sensors in place that turn the lights on or off depending on whether motion is detected, and dim the lights on sunny days or brighten them
on overcast or cloudy ones. More efficient are used, saving 75% of the energy and lasting 13 times as long as ones. Venturi effect fluorescent lamps
incandescent They filed for bankruptcy and that’s when 9-year-old Ashley decided to do what she can to help her mom. As a child, there are very few things she could’ve done to support her mom. However, she knew that food was one of their highest expenses. She convinced her mom that what she really liked and really wanted to eat more than anything else was mustard and relish sandwiches, because that was the cheapest way to eat. He also plans to create tax cuts of up to $300 billion, saying he hopes the combination of cuts and new spending on infrastructure and energy projects will help the recession from deepening. "We can no longer afford to sustain the old ways when we know there are new and more efficient ways to getting the job done," Obama said.Breaking News: To enforce and monitor his plan, Obama unveiled a new position in the White House: Chief Performance Officer. After high school, Obama studied at Occidental College
in Los Angeles for two years. He then transferred to Columbia University in New York, graduating in 1983 with a degree in political science. After working at Business International Corporation (a company that provided international business information to corporate
clients) and NYPIRG, Obama moved to Chicago in 1985. There, he worked as a community organizer with low-income residents in Chicago’s Roseland community and the Altgeld Gardens public housing development on the city’s South Side. It has been an important link between Pakistan and Afghanistan.
Throughout history it has been an important trade route between Central Asia and South Asia. It is one of the most important mountain passes in the history. Crossing the Khyber is quite adventurous. Khyber Pass is a narrow, steep-sided pass,
located between Afghanistan and Pakistan. The routes through it link the cities of Peshawar in Pakistan and Kabul in Afghanistan. It is located at 1070 metres elevation, where the Khyber River (Khyber Khwar) leaves the pass to the south. A railroad which passes through 34 tunnels and over 92 bridges and culverts, runs to the Afghan border. Obama's candidacy was boosted by Axelrod's
advertising campaign featuring images of the late Chicago Mayor and an endorsement by the daughter of the late , former U.S. Senator for Illinois. He received over 52% of the vote in the March 2004 primary, emerging 29% ahead of his nearest Democratic rival. David Axelrod [53] Peter Fitzgerald Carol Moseley Braun [54] Harold Washington Paul Simon [55] [56] As , I'm finding it hard to be truly upset about this one. Maybe just distracted by
my upsetness over the who
will be "sending a policy" in the form of "trillions of dollars." thank you for going through all the stages of grief re: Rick Warren so I didn't have to Peggy Noonan said of Jeremiah Wright questionable future regulators So the
guy is a huge homophobe: Meh, sorry Barney, still don't care. observed empathizesThe Purpose-Driven LifeThe Perverts and Babykillers Bringing the Country to Ruin Murderer's Pride Parades I'd like to hear the  on this one. One of my favorite things about being raised in such an old and big and totally screwed-up religion is all the deviant and/or dissident clerics the Catholic Church has produced over the years, exposing on a grand and tragic and awesome scale the fallibility of humanity and the consciousness that instills in us the sense that there must be something bigger and more beyond just our own petty civilization, and we can glean what that bigger thing wants from us. My favorite at the moment is the late , the anti-war
Jesuit priest Frank replaced in Congress upon the request of a
new Pope uneasy at the
thought of a representative in the world's most important legislature who said of abortion "I think abortion is a terrible thing & except for women." [] edit History and tradition Founded in 1841, Punahou School was originally a school for the children of serving throughout the . It was known as from 1859 to 1934. Congregational missionaries Pacific region Oahu College The land on which Punahou School sits (colloquially known as Ka Punahou) was given as a gift from Oahu's Governor Boki and his wife, Liliha (as suggested by ) to the , the first Christian missionary in Hawaii. The first class was held on , and consisted of only fifteen students. The school was listed on the in .
Many traditional events take place on the campus. On the first Friday and Saturday of each February, the campus hosts the annual Punahou Carnival, whose proceeds benefit the Financial Aid program. The campus also hosts the Alumni Luau Weekend, where alumni come together and meet. The new graduates are invited as well. Queen Ka ahumanu Rev. Hiram Bingham
July 11 1842 National
Register of Historic Places
1972 [9] [10] Dreams From My Father: A Story of Race and Inheritance1995 The Audacity of Hope: Thoughts on Reclaiming the American Dream2006 It Takes a Nation: How Strangers Became Family in the Wake of Hurricane Katrina2006 President-elect Barack Obama said in a speech Wednesday (January 7th, 2009) that the economic crisis "requires immediate and decisive action." It’s time that
we make our presence felt in Washington and it is time we make our voices heard around the world. Yes, we can. Last Friday, I walked into my early voting station and enthusiastically cast my vote for Barack Obama as the next President of the United States of America. I have never been more proud of my country and of myself.   I leave you with the story of Ashley
Baia, a 23-year-old organizer for Barack Obama’s campaign, told by Barack during his “A more perfect Union” speech. Shimon ben Shetach Sadducees Supreme Court Mishnah BCE - (2006) - Death of Rabbi29 Tebet Yitzchak Kaduri Rabbi , known in recent years as "the eldest of the ," in , was born in Baghdad, Iraq in 1898. As a youth, he studied under "" ([[Rabbi Yosef Chaim of
, 1840-1913) and was regarded as an illu () by the sages of the venerable Baghdad Jewish community. In 1922, Rabbi Yitzchak emigrated to and joined the ranks of the Jerusalem Kabbalists, even as he earned his living for many years as a . The Rabbi's fame grew over the years and thousands flocked to him to receive his counsel and blessing. He died on the 29th of
Tebet of 2006, 108 years
old. Hundreds of thousands attended his funeral in . Yitzchak Kaduri Kabbalists Israel Ben Ish Chai Baghdad prodigy Palestine bookbinder Jerusalem .This list is ; you can help by incomplete expanding it Spain Portugal Christianity marranos Spain
Portugal - (1622) - rescue22 Tebet Prague In the yearbook of the Meisel Synagogue in Prague, the 22nd of Tebet is designated to commemorate the escape of from the gallows in the Hebrew year 5383 (1622). Yosef Thein - (1812) - Death of Rabbi24 Tebet Schneur Zalman of Liadi The founder of , Rabbi Schneur Zalman of Liadi (1745-1812), died on the eve of the 24th of Tebet, at approximately 10:30 pm, shortly after reciting the prayer, which marks the end of . Chabad Chassidism Havdalah Shabbat - (1837) - earthquake24 Tebet Safed <br A devastating earthquake struck northern , killing four thousand Jews in and between 700 to 1000 Jews in . Israel Safed Tiberias - (1852) - Mount Sinai Hospital24 Tebet The first hospital in America under Jewish
direction, , was founded in New York on the 24 of Tebet in 1852. Mount Sinai Hospital Environmental Science Environmental Studies CONSERVATION AND RESOURCE MANAGEMENT Drama and Dramatics/Theatre Arts, General DRAMA AND PERFORMING ARTS Elementary Education and Teaching Secondary Education and
Teaching EDUCATION AND TEACHING American/United States
Studies/Civilization Anthropology Asian Studies/Civilization Economics, General Economics, Other English Language and Literature/Letters, Other Foreign Languages and Literatures, General French Language
and Literature History, General International Relations and Affairs Multi-/Interdisciplinary Studies, Other Political Science and Government, General Sociology Spanish Language and Literature Women's Studies LIBERAL ARTS Mathematics, General MATHEMATICS The pass also important in the Afghan Wars fought by
the British in the 19th cent during 1839-42, 1878-80, and 1919
wars. That is why George
Molesworth, once said, "Every stone in the Khaibar has been soaked in blood." To the north of the Khyber Pass lies the country of the Mullagori Afridis lies in the north of the Khyber Pass. To the north of the Khyber Pass lies the country of
the Mullagori Afridis lies
to the north of the
Khyber Pass. Inhabitants of villages in the pass are Afridi clansmen. Why is this? Well, statistically, the average American knows at least a handful of gay people. The average American knows a handful of women who've had abortions. The average American does not think people in either camp are evil for what they have "done." The average American probably even with the pain involved in belonging to said camp in an America whose moral culture is dominated by guys like Rick Warren. But wait, let's talk about that for a sec: Rick Warren's book is called . It is not called . Does this mean the debates were for nothing? Is Lincoln's
performance in the debates an illusion?Tribune AlmanacAmerican Almanac Well, the problem with that is the assumption that you can take the vote counts for those direct state offices and translate them into what would have been votes for Lincoln and Douglas, and they don't translate at all. If you go back to the original vote ledgers in the Illinois Secretary of State's office, you find that the votes cast for members of the state legislature amount to a great deal more than if you take those two figures together. Barack Obama is a clear break from the failed policies of the republican administration. He advocates universal and
accessible health care for every American, even those with
pre-existing conditions, and tax relief for 98 percent of all Americans instead of the wealthiest among us, according to the independent Tax Policy Center. He wants to re-establish regulations and protective measures to ensure that a future melt down will not be as dramatic and devastating. He believes in the same failed trickle-down economics and
deregulatory policies that have left this country on the brink of a major financial collapse. He proposes more tax breaks to the wealthy, while leaving the middle class to fend for themselves. Instead of
universal health care, John McCain wants to tax your health
care benefits and cut Medicare and Medicaid benefits. In the midst of a slumping market, he wants to privatize social security and risk your future on the volatile stock market. In addition to restoring fiscal order and reforming government, Obama said Killefer will help lead the effort to go through the federal budget line-by-line to "put government on the side of taxpayers." After Obama's introduction, Killefer pledged to do her best to "create a government that works better for its citizens." Obama says he hopes to pass the plan by the end of the month or the first week of February at the latest. Barack Hussein Obama was
born Aug. 4, 1961, in Honolulu, Hawaii. His father, Barack Obama, Sr., was born of Luo ethnicity in Nyanza Province, Kenya. He grew up herding goats with his own father, who was a domestic servant to the British. Although reared among Muslims, Obama, Sr., became an atheist at some point.Biography: Obama’s mother, Ann Dunham, grew up in Wichita, Kansas. Her father worked on oil rigs during the Depression. After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, he signed up for service in World War II and marched across Europe in Patton’s army. Dunham’s mother went to work on a bomber assembly line. After the war, they studied on the
G. I. Bill, bought a house through the Federal Housing Program, and moved to Hawaii. Meantime, Barack’s father had won a scholarship that allowed him to leave Kenya pursue his dreams in Hawaii. Despite supplying the US military with what he described as a Taliban intelligence chief, he was arrested for imprisoning terror suspects on his own. Idema's conviction and sentencing to an Afghani jail term is sure
to give pause to even the most grandiose soldier of fortune. But from where do intelligence officials in Kabul and Islamabad summon the gall to claim there has been no trace of bin Laden for the past twenty months?1 Everyone knows Pakistan's ISI and Al Qaida wallow together in a sty of co-dependency.2 One can't help but wonder if the
bounty's primary function is to demonstrate not the sincerity, but the appearance, of an intention to apprehend bin Laden. If we really wanted bin Laden would we subject ourselves to regular lectures by a mass murderer? "No doubt you recall the words of the conceited one," he scolds, "who said I will settle the battle in six days or seven weeks... [that the]
whole thing is a picnic in Panama."3 Whether as a terror kingpin or in his new role as a foreign affairs analyst for OBL-TV, bin Laden haunts us. Case Middle School consists of nine color-coded buildingsgreen for sixth grade, blue for seventh, and red for eighthon the lower east side of Punahou campus. One of the nine new Case Middle School buildings on the Punahou Campus. [] edit Athletics The Punahou athletics program is the most
successful in the state
and one of the most successful in the nation, having won more state championships (322) than any other high school in the nation. In 2005, it was named the #4 U.S. high school athletics program by . Athletic facilities include the heated Waterhouse Pool, holding an Olympic-sized swimming pool,
and the Atherton Olympic size 8-lane Mondo track surface. The
school also has a fieldhouse for competitive
athletics, a gymnasium for physical education and intramural sports, and a tennis center with 9 hard surface courts. [19] Sports Illustrated [3] [20] Punahou students have the opportunity to compete in 22 sports, including , , . , , , , , , , , , , , , , and , , , , , and . In fact, Lincoln and Douglas were on the campaign trail almost without intermission from mid-July until the very eve of the election, the second of November. In the course of things they not only have the seven debates but they deliver upwards of 50 to 60 stump speeches in a variety of venues all around Illinois --
mostly in the middle of the
state, because the swing votes are going to be in the old Whig party districts and counties of the mid-state and Illinois River towns. It's what I call the "Whig Belt." That's what held the balance and both Lincoln and Douglas knew it so they devoted most of their attention that way.Allen Guelzo: Therapy And Counseling secondary teaching, elementary school teaching Number of programs and degrees for Occidental College in 2005: Degree Level , Occidental College had a total
enrollment of 1,839 students (1,821 full-time equivalent).In 2005 Students in the Freshman Class (2005): Group More details are available, using 2004 data: Students By Class (2004): (From available data sampling)Incoming (Freshman) Students by Place of Residence (2004): Residence Occidental
College Graduation, Retention, and Transfers
Retention Rates (2004): 91 %
Occidental College Room and Board (2005) Occidental
College offers campus housing for 1,305 of its 1,821 (full-time) students. Freshmen are to live on campus.required (Please refer to our profile of for details about the area surrounding the campus. Also see our list of other Los Angeles, California California Colleges ). He served from 1994 to 2002 on the board of directors of the , which in 1985 had been the first foundation to fund the Developing Communities Project, and also from 1994 to 2002 on the board of directors of The . Obama served on the board of directors of the from 1995 to 2002, as founding president and chairman of the board of directors from 1995 to 1999. He also served on the board of directors of the Chicago Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights
Under Law, the Center for
Neighborhood Technology, and the Lugenia Burns Hope Center. A very good example of that is Harry Jaffa's book, . It's a book of genius but is almost entirely focused on extracting aspects of political theory from the debates. It does not really present a point-to-point account of how the debates were created and how they unfolded and what
the results were.Allen
Guelzo:Crisis of the House Divided David Zarefsky's wonderful book on the Lincoln-Douglas debates is an analysis of the rhetoric employed by Lincoln and Douglas. Again, it doesn't try to offer the point-to-point debate so much as it tries to isolate those elements of the rhetorical style and the rhetorical techniques used by Lincoln and Douglas to make their points during the debates. Occidental College Contacting Occidental College 1600 Campus Rd Los Angeles, CA 90041-3392 General Phone: (323) 259-2500 Admissions Phone: (323) 259-2700 Financial Aid Phone: (323) 259-2548 http://www.oxy.eduOccidental College Occidental College Programs and Degrees (2005) Occidental College awarded degrees in these major categories in 2005: General Category Most Common Majors [see all] Liberal Arts When you look at that total, not only is it entirely different from what the almanacs and histories report, but the way the voting took place, Lincoln candidates for the legislature came off with about 54 percent of the vote. Douglas candidates came off with only about 45 percent. But Lincoln
loses, doesn't he? This is because the Illinois apportionment scheme heavily favored districts in the south of the state which were solidly Democratic and shortchanged districts from the north, which were heavily Republican. She told everyone that the reason she stands with Barack was so she could help the millions of other children in the country who want and need to help their parents too. After she told her story, other people started sharing why they are supporting Barack. Everyone had a different reason ranging from Iraq to health care except for an elderly black man. He simply says, “I am here because of Ashley.”   I stand here with Barack because of Ashley and others like her. We stand here together because we want to help the millions of Americans that need help in a time like this. Will you join me, Ashley and millions of Americans on Nov. 4 and vote for Barack Obama as the next president of the United States?   Deny
cynicism and fear and vote for your hopes and dreams. The racial makeup of the county was 86.25% , 0.08% or , 0.71% , 0.08% , 10.51% from , and 2.37% from two or more races. 18.41% of the population were or of any race. census [3] population density White Black African American Native American Asian other races Hispanic Latino Age pyramid There were 967
households out of which 35.10% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 65.30% were living together, 5.80% had a female householder with no husband present, and 25.20% were non-families. 23.70% of all households were made up of individuals and 10.00% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. Indianapolis firefighter Matt Hahn said, "What we're all looking for now is a swift, stern, exact punishment."4 In an article on Newsweek Web Exclusive, another WTC survivor,
Eileen Touhey-Kiniery, no
doubt spoke for many when she said,
"I don't have the words to describe this maniacal coward, this living subhuman organism."5 The response of one man who,d lost a daughter, however, was a portent. "It should be filed away and let the government and the CIA take care of it," he
said.4
Meanwhile, immediately after 9/11, in Washingtonville, New York, a town that lost five firefighters, an open grave was dug and a huge headstone engraved with bin Laden's name was erected.6 Within a week, however, the headstone was replaced by the figure of a white eagle surrounded by yellow chrysanthemums.