Beat poetry may have arisen in part as a reaction to the technique-focused efforts of the , who according to Eleveld had changed the poetic question from “What does it mean to be human now”, to “What is a well-crafted poem?” Jack Kerouac and the Beats were anti-materialistic, pro-spiritual exploration and critical of the 1950s stereotype of the “perfect family”. In Eleveld’s view, “more than any other link to the present-day era, Allen Ginsberg’s 1956 Gallery Six Reading of leads into today’s performance poetry. New Critics Howl Between Beat and modern performance poetry came rapping and hip-hop. Influenced by Jamaican DJ music, the first rappers in the early seventies developed the story-telling spoken word in the African-American community. Jerry Quickley in the book puts to rest any idea that Hip Hop is not poetry,
commenting that it “incorporates many of the technical devices of other forms, including slant rhymes, enjambment, A-B rhyme schemes….[It is] usually parsed in 16-bar stanzas, and generally followed by four-to-eight-bar hooks”.Eleveld Poem In Your Pocket Day is made possible, in part, by the National Council of Teachers of English and the American Booksellers Association, and by public funds from the New York City Department of Cultural Affairs. Need a Poem for Your Pocket? Along with your library, bookstore, or shelf at home, you can find the perfect poem for your pocket by Poets.org, or by signing up to from new spring poetry titles each day during April. Download pocket-sized to print and share: Poem PDFs Poem In Your Pocket History Poem In Your Pocket Day has been celebrated each April in New York City since 2002. We believe that poets have a unique role to play in social movements as innovators, visionaries, truth tellers, and restorers of language. Poetry and the arts are
also vital to youth development and
empowering young people to speak out and have
confidence in their voices. Our intention is to bridge differences in our city and literary community: to place on the same stage poets who work primarily on the page and poets who write primarily for performance; gay and straight poets; African American, Latino, Asian, white, and Native poets; young poets and older poets; poets with disabilities; poets of all social classes. The organizers of this festival believe that as citizens and artists, our obligation has never been greater. Our intent is twofold: To call poets to a greater role in public life and to bring the vital, important, challenging poetry of witness that is being written by American poets today to a larger and more diverse audience. The goals of Split This Rock are: To celebrate the poetry of witness and provocation being written, published, and performed in the United States today. by Walt Whitman I have heard what the talkers were talking, the talk of the    beginning and the end But I do not talk of the beginning or the end. There was never any more inception than there is now, Nor any more youth or age than there is now, And will never be any more perfection than there is now, Nor any more heaven or hell than there is now.  Urge and urge and urge, Always the
procreant urge of the world. Out of the dimness opposite equals advance, always substance and    increase, always sex, Always a knit of identity, always distinction, always a breed of    life. To elaborate is no avail, learn'd and unlearn'd feel that it is    so. Talk about the empowering and all-embracing nature of the poem. Discuss how the speaker embodies the role of the world's creator, and in this way can express awe for the mysteries of the world, whether man-made or natural. Note that Giovanni references both Allah and Jesus, thereby
bringing different religions together under a common respect for all of humanity. Point out that references to Egyptian imagery was a common trait in poems by Harlem Renaissance writers. Discuss the fact that Nikki Giovanni and Harlem Renaissance poets like referenced Egyptian history to embrace their African heritage. Langton Hughes and other Harlem Renaissance writers included symbols of African history in their works in response to some of their contemporaries, whom many believed rejected their black identity in order to be accepted into the
dominant white society. Discuss how the empowered tone in Giovanni's poem is all the more poignant due to the tragic history of African slavery. Clear and sweet is my soul, and clear and sweet is all that is not    my soul.  Lack one lacks both, and the unseen is proved by the seen, Till that
becomes unseen and receives proof in its turn.  Showing the best and dividing it from the worst age vexes age, Knowing the perfect fitness and equanimity of things, while they    discuss I am silent, and go bathe and admire myself.  Welcome is every organ and attribute of me, and of any man hearty    and clean, Not an inch nor a particle of an inch is vile, and none shall be    less familiar than the rest.  I am satisfied—I see, dance, laugh, sing; As the hugging and loving bed-fellow sleeps at my side through the    night, and withdraws at the peep of the day with stealthy tread. Leaving me baskets cover'd with white towels swelling the house    with their plenty, Shall I postpone my acceptation and realization and scream at my    eyes, That they turn from gazing after and down the road, And forthwith cipher and show me to a cent, Exactly the value of one and exactly the value of two, and which is    ahead? Facilitate discussion groups independent from the teacher. Organize and present ideas in a logical order. Actively listen, respond to, and build on ideas generated during group discussions. Use information to inform or change perspectives. Deliver informal and formal presentations, giving consideration to audience,
purpose and content. Conduct interviews for research projects and writing. Select books for independent reading. Identify visual or aural techniques used in a media message for a particular audience. Ask questions to clarify information. Understand genres and organizational structure. Collect information for writing from different texts and sources. Celebrate the second national Poem In Your Pocket Day on Thursday, April 30, 2009! The idea is simple: select a poem you love during National Poetry Month then carry it with you to share with co-workers, family, and friends on a date in April (to be announced). Poems from pockets will be unfolded throughout the day with events in parks, libraries, schools, workplaces, and bookstores. using ideas below or let us know how you will celebrate Poem In Your Pocket Day by emailing . Create your own Poem In Your Pocket Day event npm@poets.org Put Poems In Pockets In this age of mechanical and digital reproduction, it's easy to carry a poem, share a poem, or start your own PIYP day event. Here are some ideas of how you might get involved: Start a "poems for pockets" give-a-way in your school or workplace
Urge local businesses to offer discounts for those carrying poems Post pocket-sized verses in public places Politics and Performance Poetry The Poetry of Those Not Heard The “place” of performance poetry since at least the Beat poets has been neither the academy nor the suburbs. Rather, it has been the poetry of the others, the people who have been repressed in some way, creative spirits without publishing contracts or mainstream lifestyles. Edward Hirsch wrote his poem for the speechless: “Not singing/is also an act of devotion; those who have no voices have one tongue.” Jerry Quickley, in an essay on hip-hop poetry in the Eleveld book, notes that “rap provided the disenfranchised youth of New York self-valorization, and a new secret language that was created by cracking open English and stuffing it with meaning”.Song People may consider that they have no voice for a variety of reasons, such as their economic status or membership of a “colonised” group. Luis Rodriguez observes a resurgence of poetry also among “outsiders” such as the homeless, prisoners and gang members. : Creative and inexpensive suggestions for making poetry a more important part of school life during
April and
throughout the year. For Teachers : Instructions for
motivating students to enjoy poetry in the classroom. Poetry Read-a-thon : Low cost suggestions to develop greater visibility for poetry during April and throughout the year. For Librarians : Use these ideas during National Poetry Month and year-round to sell more poetry. For Booksellers The festival will explore and celebrate the many ways that poetry can act as an agent for change: reaching across differences, considering personal and social responsibility, asserting the centrality of the right to free speech, bearing witness to the diversity and complexity of human experience through language, imagining a better world. As we head into the fifth year of war in Iraq, our country faces a crisis of imagination. UPLOAD YOUR REMIX [10mb max file size] THE DEAD EMCEE SCROLLS has been set to music composed by Thomas Kessler and performed by The Arditti String Quartet. The full composition as well as the isolated stems are available for download below. Send us your remixes and well post them for listening on saulwilliams.com..or just enjoy the composition! The Arditti Quartet files are free to use for any kind of remixes as long as The Arditti String Quartet is credited on the remix. Download Chapters 18 through 22 for a sample of the work.   DOWNLOAD Download the entire 27 minute composition. Includes: " Chapters 1-33 full composition [aif format] " Chapters 1-33 Solo voice [aif format] " Chapters 1-33 Solo quartet [aif format] Once the payment process is completed, you will be sent an email with the link
to download the entire package. 563mb. If you have any questions
or problems, contact us DOWNLOAD SAUL WILLIAMS I write poetry
because it is the clearest
and most direct expression of how I think. I take pride in being called a poet mostly because it feels like an ordination. I did not grow up thinking of myself as a poet, so it is an honor to be considered one. Okay, we know it's confusing; it's difficult to explain in only a few words how &
why Spoken Word finally saw a heyday. It's hard to illustrate the strange, unpredictable process of assigning a new label for a new consciousness. We confess, also, that the term Spoken Word implies that any words that are spoken might qualify as Spoken Word, but then what if it's only recorded, not actually performed live? We might ask "If a word plays on a recorder & no one's there to hear… is it Spoken Word?" (And what if you add music? Is a telephone call Spoken Word? A rant? Reading aloud to the dog? Just give a good simple definition. Oh,
and what is it like to be a spoken word artist? Where do you go to apply?) There is no simple, singular definition for Spoken Word. And maybe there shouldn't be—most independent artists resent being cubby-holed since it puts a crimp in "the experiment". Most word artists have historically been & currently are rebel artists; often they are marginalized people or social change activists. These artists resent "experts" defining their work and suspect a link to those who would streamline art as a commodity.