For example, an Italian Mother might chastise her offspring for not eating by saying, "Eat your dinner, or I'll kill you." A Jewish Mother on the other hand would say, "Eat your dinner, or I'll kill myself." If evolution really works, how come Mothers only have two hands ? Personally, I think today's kids ought to do
something really special for their Mothers on Mother's Day -- like move out ! In the fall of 2001, the two schools joined on the football field, with Shorewood hoping to boost a lagging program and Messmer looking for a return to the football field after nearly two decades without a team. It was the first ever
public-private football partnership in Wisconsin and, of a few dozen like it in the nation, the only one to combine central city kids with those from an affluent suburb. What Moms Really Want for Mother's Day For my teenager to
announce "Hey, Mom! I got a full scholarship and a job all in the same day!" Five pounds of chocolate that won't add twenty To have my 14 year-old daughter answer a question without rolling her eyes in that "Why is this person my mother?" way.  A grocery store that doesn't have candy/gum/cheap toys displayed at the checkout line. uncovers deep
concern over Real ID across the nation.  Wisconsin officials' response to the survey is available .   National survey of motor vehicles administrators here (, November 3, 2005) State transportation officials in Wisconsin say that motorists will have to "wait longer, drive farther and possibly pay more," in order to get their licenses under the new regulations imposed by the Real ID Act,
according to the (registration required). "Rules for licenses may be tightened; New law could mean longer lines at DMV" Milwaukee Journal Sentinel Christy Arnold, a 1999 NIU and Northern Star alumna, was part of a team that became a finalist for this year’s Pulitzer Prize for local reporting of breaking news. Arnold was a reporter for
the Sun Herald in Port Charlotte, Fla. The nomination was for the paper’s coverage of Hurricane Charley, which devastated the community last August. Pulitzer judges cited the Sun Herald’s “heroic coverage of Hurricane Charley after it destroyed the homes of employees and cut the paper’s power supply and phone service.” here examines how women in
the news business have changed journalism, the culture and the world. Ten of the country's most powerful and innovative television, radio and print journalists are featured in , spanning decades of insight and experience - from Helen Thomas, the first female dean of the White House Press Corps, to Anna Quindlen,
Pulitzer Prize winning columnist. 1807 Bedford Common Pleas : Judgment, A-311 (5)L [Folder 24]Paddock, Nathaniel 1808 Common Pleas : Plea, A-311 (69)L [Folder 2]Paddock, Nathaniel 1841 Supreme Court : Satisfactions, A-318 (5)L [Folder 7]Paddock, Obed 1836 General Sessions : True Bill, A-320 (10)L
[Folder 11]Paddock, Obed S. 1845 Supreme Court : Satisfactions, A-318 (5)L [Folder 11]Paddock, Obed S. 1822 Supreme Court : Nisi Prius, A-318 (3)L [Folder 8]Pell, James E. 1822 Supreme Court : Nisi Prius, A-318 (3)L [Folder 8]Pell, James E. 1792 White Plains Common Pleas : Judgment, A-311 (3)L [Folder 16]Pell, Joseph 1800 General
Sessions : True Bill, A-320 (9)L [Folder 9]Pell, Joseph 1801 General Sessions : True Bill, A-320 (9)L [Folder 13]Pell, Joseph 1802 White Plains Common Pleas : Judgment,
A-311 (4)L [Folder 27]Pell, Joseph "I really didn't expect to win it but it was good news when I did," Houchin, one of 15 students from 14 universities to win a BEA scholarship, said. Houchin's winning essay focused on his work at KBGA college radio and his plans for a radio broadcast career. This is the seventh straight year a student from UM has been awarded a BEA scholarship. Contact Milwaukee Journal Sentinel: Teamsters
Chilly Toward 401(k) Plan September 12, 2008: The leaders of Teamsters Local 200 said Thursday that they have made no decision yet on whether to take Waste Management Inc.s last, best and final offer to union membership for a vote. Speaking out in detail for the first time since the strike of union trash haulers began Aug. Left Content Area Center Content Area At UWM, is a way of doing business - a collaborative approach that
brings together people from the community and the university to address challenges in education, the environment, public health and economic development. One of these exciting Milwaukee Idea collaborative efforts is , a community-wide effort to revitalize our urban schools. Only 27 percent of these large dailies were at their peak as
2005 began.” The Gannett and Knight Ridder newspaper groups ranked first and second, respectively, in what the study termed its “diversity index.” With a score of 100 equalling parity with the circulation area, Gannett papers scored a combined 89. Knight Ridder scored 76. The online report charts survey results for all
daily newspapers dating back to 1990. , are listed, paper by paper. A recent and significant addition to the museum is the new Quadracci Pavilion designed by Santiago Calatrava.Milwaukee Art Museum www.mam.org/ The Milwaukee Public
Museum is a museum of human and natural history that interprets the world's culture and natural heritage through collections, research, education and exhibits. The museum's research collections include over six million objects and
specimens of which roughly 2% are on display as permanent exhibits. That went to The Star-Ledger, Newark, N.J., “for its comprehensive, clear-headed coverage of the resignation of New Jersey’s governor after he announced he was gay and confessed to adultery with a male lover.” This summer, Arnold has accepted a reporting position with the Cincinnati Enquirer.. Study shows newsroom diversity
slipping Newsrooms at daily papers are moving the wrong way when it comes to their racial and ethnic makeup reflecting their communities, says a report released June 1 by the Knight Foundation. About the Beacon Become part of our
Public
Insight Network and join thousands of people like you who help make the St. Louis Beacon even stronger. About once a month, we'll ask you to share your observations, insights and experience. We then pass on your information to our reporters and editors who may follow up with a request for
more information, or perhaps an interview. Analysis of residues by diffuse reflectance Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy and alkaline CuO extraction indicated that open decay in sites with abundant earthworms resulted in residues depleted in cuticular aliphatic and polysaccharide components and enriched in
ether-linked lignin relative to open decay in low earthworm abundance plots. Decay within earthworm-excluding litter bags resulted in an increase in aliphatic components relative to initial amendment and similar chemical trajectory to low earthworm open decay experiments. How will KETC and the Beacon use the information I give them?How do
I share what I know with you?   Up to one e-mail a month asking for your insight on issues we plan to cover -- you respond only if you have knowledge; otherwise ignore the request An occasional follow-up call or e-mail to get more information, if we follow a lead you provide Pentagon Propaganda New York Times This
ongoing campaign aims to rid local television news of hidden corporate propaganda. Public pressure sparked an FCC investigation into "video news releases" masquerading as real journalism on dozens of local stations. No Fake News Free Press is working to protect small and independent publishers from unfair postal rate
increases. Stamp Out the Rate Hikes