Since then, Kabul Serena Hotel has been offering great services and facilities to its valuable customers. Kabul Serena
Hotel in a strategic location in Kabul and therefore remains swarmed with guests at all times. The total number of rooms in Kabul Serena Hotel is 177. These 177 rooms can again be subdivided into
160 Deluxe and Superior Rooms, 16 Executive Suites and 1 Presidential Suite. The Soviet Union also prevailed on the international stage. Soviet-backed North Vietnamese forces expelled American troops after a prolonged conflict. The communist victory in Vietnam, coupled with U.S. public opposition to the conflict, signaled an end
to the American policy of communist containment in Southeast Asia. With further containment of communism in doubt, the United States had to reposition itself on the international scene. The administration of President Richard M. The war against an irregular opponent like the Taliban, or any guerrilla movement, cannot be won in the
traditional military sense. In asymmetric warfare, you are fighting an elusive enemy with a low tactical signature, no infrastructure, no industrial base, no seat of government and no command and control facilities. So, where can you hit him? This is an uncomfortable dilemma professional soldiers have acknowledged a
long time ago. It is a fact that for
as long as history remembers, human societies in their long historical evolution have used councils and meetings to decide on issues that directly impacted their lives within their families, villages, tribes and regions. Even prehistoric man used councils in deciding how to deal with the wild that threatened his life or how to
deal with natural calamities or even hostile neighboring tribes. The weak government contributed to shortfalls in international development aid to Afghanistan. By early 2008, some $25 billion had been pledged, and three
fifths of that actually spent. The effectiveness of the aid was greatly reduced by government corruption, spending on
foreign consultants and companies (sometimes required under the terms of the aid), wasteful spending practices, and sharp imbalances nationally in the distribution of the aid.
Japan-Pakistan Relations   (http://www.alephx.com/karachi/) Karachi is a city and seaport that is the capital of the province of Sind, Pakistan. Aleph Inc. provides an overview of the history of the city, and highlights tourist attractions, hotel accommodations, restaurants, and upcoming events. Karachi Profile
  (http://www.gharib.demon.co.uk/docs/moin.htm) Gharib Hanif presents the full text of an article entitled "Kashmir Matters," written by Moin Ansari. is one of the oldest cities of
the region and is considered to be the first city to which the tribes moved from the North of , approximately between 2000 - 1500 . The Arabs called it or due to its antiquity.    The changing climate has led to since antiquity, when the region was very fertile. The city's long history and former importance are recognized by the
native population, who speak of it as the and the birth place of at Balkh and also believed by that he's buried there. They are impressed enough that war rockets begin to be adopted by the British military. Comet Encke reappears. 1807 Russian encroachments from the north lead the Japanese shogunate to extend direct rule to the islands of
Hokkaido and Sakhalin. However, they continue their exclusion of outsiders from the country other than at the trading port of Nagasaki. Sayyid Muhammad refused to admit
him to
the shrine city of Qum. Sayyid Muhammad's mother was the daughter of Safavid shah Sulaiman, and so in 1750 he was enthroned by 'Alam Khan 'Arab Khuzaima and some Kurdish
and Jalariyid chiefs as Sulaiman II. Shahrukh was blinded but was restored to the throne after only a few months, as Sulaiman II was removed and blinded. Shahrukh's infirmity was concealed, and Yusuf 'Ali Khan Jalayir helped him govern. We came from all parts of the country to claim our freedom and democracy, but instead are being met with
systematic threats and
intimidation aimed at undermining our free choice. 01 Jan 2002 By: prepared for the Afghan Assistance Coordination Authority (AACA): There is a consensus in Afghan society: violence as a
means of compelling the majority to submit to the will of minority must end. In 1761 he defeated an Indian army at Panipat, India. Although he was a powerful military leader, Ahmad never succeeded in
permanently ruling India; he subsequently withdrew into Afghanistan. Ahmad Shah was an outstanding general and a just ruler. He governed with the help of a council of chiefs, each responsible for his own people. Thus all matters of national issues were centralized, but each chief ruled his own tribe. There were several important
commercial routes from the city, stretching as far east as and .    In sacked Balkh, butchered its inhabitants and levelled all the buildings capable of defense —
treatment to which it was again subjected in the 14th century by . Notwithstanding this, however, could still describe it as "a noble city and a great." Many organizations, especially UNESCO, ACEM, UNICEF, the World Bank,
and the Asian Development Bank are sponsoring and organizing education initiatives. The Government of Afghanistan similarly view education is the key to the long-term success of the
Afghan state. Jirgas A historically Pashto term, , translates to “grand council.” It is a unique forum in which tribal
elders of each ethnic group convene to discuss and resolve Afghanistan’s affairs. The Abdali Pashtuns were known thereafter as the Durrani. Ahmad's rise was owing not only to his personality and talents but also to extraordinary luck. His reign coincided with the deterioration of the empires on both sides of
Afghanistan-the Mughals to the southeast and the Safavis to the west. Even his first days as paramount chief were blessed with good fortune.   (http://www.ptv.gov.pk/) Website of the government-owned television network provides history and devlopment of broadcasting in Pakistan, programming material, popular music, and live webcast (in RealPlayer
format). Programs and music archived for six months. Pakistan Television   (http://www.clas.ufl.edu/users/gthursby/pak/) Presents a collection of Pakistan resources, as part of the South Asia WWW Virtual Library. Includes resources on basic information of Pakistan, cultural associations, academic study and research, current news,
business and commerce, education, languages, history and cultures, government, electoral politics, sports, travel, and popular arts. The film also includes interviews with National Geographic archaeologist and exhibition curator and director of the museum in Kabul, Omara Massoudi. It was produced by the National Geographic Society. It will be
aired on WETA-TV in Washington and on public broadcasting stations throughout the United States. A twelve-minute version will be shown in the exhibition.Afghanistan: Hidden Treasures The Kite RunnerA Thousand Splendid Suns Fredrik Hiebert The Political Parties Law that was later enacted by the Karzai Government provided the
procedures for the legal registration of political parties in accordance with the constitution. This law prohibits political parties whose charters are “opposed to the principles of the holy religion Islam,” which is problematic since Islamic principles are open to interpretation. soil degradation; overgrazing; deforestation (much of the
remaining forests are being cut down for fuel and building materials); desertificationEnvironment - current issues: Desertification, Endangered Species, Environmental Modification, Marine Dumping, Nuclear Test Ban Biodiversity, Climate Change, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Life ConservationEnvironment - international agreements: party
to: signed, but not ratified: landlockedGeography - note: NOTE: The information regarding Afghanistan on this page is re-published from the 2001 World Fact Book of the United States Central Intelligence Agency. The people resist the invasion and Mujahiddin groups are formed Raise of Mujahiddin   Power mongers at war, destroy Afghanistan infrastructure
Civil War 1990 - 1996 Taliban announce they will restore peace and freedom The Taliban Movement   Alliance of former warlords battle new Taliban movement Northern Alliance   USA attacks the bases of Osama Bin Laden War Against Al Qaeda   Under UN supervision Afghan meet to form a new
government Bonn Meeting on Afghanistan Paris becomes a free city, not quite lawless but with very few restrictions on anything. This makes it a magnet for the underworld and libertines from all over Europe. It has been
described as 'a modern-day Sodom and Gomorrah'. By the end of the Dissolution, the new French states have stabilised into The Duchy of Auvergne, Normandy, Berry, The Duchy of Paris; ruled from the
rebuilt Louvre, Poitou, Savoy, Saintonge, Limousin, Champage, Picardy, Alcase-Lorraine, Provence and Burgundy. The hotel facilities have been designed keeping in mind the comfort and refreshment of the customers. Hotel personnel are
very warm, attentive and friendly and they are familiar with a number of language. Maisha is the wellness center, which offers a swimming pool, a gym, steam baths, and sauna. Silk Route is the South East Asian Restaurant of Kabul Serena Hotel. In 1978, Daud was deposed by a group led by
Noor Mohammed Taraki, who instituted Marxist reforms and aligned the country more closely with the Soviet Union. In Sept., 1979, Taraki was killed and Hafizullah Amin took power. Shortly thereafter,
the USSR sent troops into Afghanistan, Amin was executed, and the Soviet-supported Babrak Karmal became president. As the combined force waited for the Afghan army from Herat, the governor's Afghan army troops from Kandahar became increasingly restless. It became clear that their loyalty was suspect, and Burrows and Sher Ali agreed to
bring them back across the river and disarm them. Before this could be done, the Afghan infantry and artillery mutinied and moved to join the army from Herat.