In
that year, in response to increasing crime, the Commissioner of Motor Vehicles organized a team of police officers who were given statewide jurisdiction to enforce traffic and criminal laws. They gained jurisdiction through by county . An associated plainclothes investigative unit became known as the "State Police Force." deputization sheriffs [6] Last year state troopers interdicted more than 7,000 pounds of illegal narcotics with a street value of nearly $53.8 million dollars - all right out of traffic stops. I am frequently asked why state troopers are so successful at finding illegal drug shipments. It starts and ends with our troopers. From a trooper’s first day on the job emphasis is placed on the quality of each traffic contact. Thoughts on the topic of forming a State Police organization for the First State had been recorded as early as 1906. Although interest existed, little, if any, positive steps were taken
until the State Highway Commission was formed in 1917. As construction of paved highways was begun and registered motor vehicles began to rise, a need to regulate and maintain safety soon became apparent. The California Highway Patrol is now accepting applications from highly motivated individuals who are ready to serve the public and the State of California with pride. If you have the dedication, heart, and desire to make a difference, then the California Highway Patrol wants you. Receive the best training in the nation at the CHP Academy from the most knowledgeable and tactical training staff in the world. "The death of my friend, CHP Officer Bruce T. Hinman in 1995, was devastating to his family and friends. And so, to remember Bruce, and to honor the officers of the CHP who work everyday protecting citizens across our state, I wrote and performed , and have officially donated it to the California Highway Patrol."The Badge of the CHP The division operates permanent truck scales throughout the state, conducts carrier inspections and is in charge of monitoring commercial motor vehicle accidents.Carrier Enforcement - Statewide, 50 Communications Specialists staff the six communications centers located in Omaha, Lincoln, Norfolk, Grand Island, North Platte and Scottsbluff.Communications Community Policing Internal Affairs Investigative Services The consists of 15 troopers and their police service dogs. , unmarked, in the same blue color, Ford Mustangs Chevy Impalas, unmarked, for traffic patrol and detective cars, Chevy Suburbans, usually marked, usually used for commercial vehicle enforcement Various trucks such as the , , and Ford Expedition, usually marked, usually used for commercial vehicle enforcement.
Ford F150 Dodge Ram MSP's new cars are have interior-mounted emergency lighting, with no lightbars on the roof. The Board will consist of five members of the Patrol. The Board will recommend the top candidates for appointment to the next available patrol class to the Patrol Commander and DPS Director. If you are given a contingent offer of employment,  you will be required to have a complete physical, drug test, eye exam, and Tuberculin skin test. - To minimize the loss of life, personal injury, and property damage resulting from traffic collisions through enforcement, education, and engineering. To
enforce
the provisions of the California Vehicle Code and other laws to prevent crime.Prevent Loss of Life, Injuries, and Property Damage - To maximize service to the public in need of aid or information, and to assist other public agencies when appropriate.Maximize Service to the Public and Assistance to Allied Agencies - Counties:Troop GAlbany, Fulton, Hamilton, Montgomery, Rensselaer, Saratoga, Schenectady, Schoharie, Warren and Washington -Troop HHeadquarters Troop (Albany) and Legislative Branch Offices - Counties:Troop KColumbia, Dutchess, Putnam and Westchester - Counties:Troop LNassau and Suffolk - Counties:Troop NYCBoroughs of New York City -Troop TNew York State Thruway and the Eric Canal System Each Troop encompasses 2-4 "Zones" which are referred to simply
by a Zone number. The maintains a list
of phone numbers and and cell phone
numbers for non-emergency calls to the
dispatchers of the Highway Patrol organizations in all 50 states. These numbers are useful for motorists who want to report , , or other dangerous but not life-threatening situations that do not require a call. Gabriel was first promoted on October 31, 1996 to Administration Sergeant.  He recently made a lateral transfer to Training Sergeant of the South Dakota Training Academy. The Recruit Academy welcomed 14 new recruits to Class 48 on Sunday evening December 2, 2007.  Our first day of the 21-week academy was December 3, 2007.  Lieutenant Scott Sheldon, First Sergeant Noel Gabriel, and Sergeant Brad Millard checked in the recruits.  In 2007, following a national trend, it relaxed the physical ability standards for aspiring police officers. Right now, any police applicant must do at least 18 push-ups/minute, 27 sit-ups/minute and be able to run 1.5 mile in a maximum time limit of 15 minutes 20 seconds. The State Police, however, chose not to follow those standards unlike many other local and county police agencies in West Virginia. 50 's were leased for this use by the MEB. [10] Harley-Davidson
FLHTPI Electra Glide [11] Traffic Operations for D11 could be heard on 155.460 Mhz
as of 10/27/08 [] edit Aircraft The Illinois State Police have six aircraft used for law enforcement throughout the state, one C and five . They are stationed at four airports, , , and . Several other unmarked vehicles in various makes and models are also used for various non-patrol purposes. Police vehicles currently being tested and considered for use include the . Ford Crown Victoria "Police Interceptor." Chevrolet Caprice Harley-Davidson Chevrolet Impala Chevrolet Camaro Chevrolet Tahoe Dodge Durango Dodge Charger [] edit Special units Louisiana State Police Patrol Helicopter Whitesell, Ph.D., whose position is appointed by the governor. His command staff includes an assistant superintendent who holds the rank of colonel and three deputy superintendents, each holding the rank of lieutenant colonel who manage three primary areas of responsibility: [2] includes the Office of Professional Standards, the Public Information Office as well as the Division, Division and Division.Fiscal & Human Resources Fiscal
Human Resources Training Staff Sergeant Fred Cole Woldrop [25] April 1, 1950 Killed in an automobile accident in Goodlettsville Sergeant Oliver Devard Williamson [26] April 6, 1952 Killed during a tornado in Brownsville Trooper Oscar Newton Morris [27] May 9, 1956 Killed by being struck by an automobile Trooper Raymond Hendon [28] Killed in an automobile accident in Smyrna Commissioner Baumann, only thirty-one years old at the time, became the youngest State Police Commissioner in the nation. A number of changes came to the growing Department in the mid-1950s. The Field Force Division started using radar as a speed enforcement tool in 1954. Two bloodhounds, "Duchess" and "Major" joined the force and made significant contributions in searches and rescues. We take a pro-active stance against crime, trying not only to protect our
public, but by showing the public how to protect
themselves. We promote safe driving for all ages, we have programs designed to teach kids about the dangers of drugs and alchohol, and we provide support to victims of crimes. The EPC contribution rate for regular members is 20.25% of gross salary, and the rate for police/fire members is 28.5% of gross salary. Under the Employee/Employer Paid contribution plan, the employee and the employer share equally in the contribution to PERS, which is currently 10.5% of gross salary each for regular members. The contribution rate for Police/fire members is 14.75% of gross salary. A Minnesota State Patrol vehicle The Minnesota State Patrol was created in 1929 when Charles M. Babcock, the Commissioner of Highways, appointed Earl Brown, Sheriff of Hennepin County, as Chief of the Highway Patrol. On July 1, 1929, Chief Brown appointed 8 officers. The first training school was held January 18 to April 1, 1930. Trooper Gary W. Snodgrass - February 21, 1970 - killed in auto accident Trooper William R. Brandt - June 12, 1970 - killed while tracking tornado Trooper Dennis H. Marriott - June 13, 1981 -
struck by vehicle during traffic stop Trooper James M. Froemsdorf - March 2, 1985 - shot by prisoner during transport Trooper Jimmie E. K9 Services Division provides specialized canine responsible for detecting narcotics and explosives in agencies within the Judiciary, the department's correctional facilities, and other state and county agencies that request those services. In 2007, the Sheriff Division was the first in the state to be certified with a Department of Homeland Security type III Team. Also the continued development of a Rapid Reaction Force for the State Law Enforcement Coalition(SLEC). The THP plans to conduct a Trooper Cadet class in 2008. Trooper Training is a 19-week course. The group will begin training on April 1, 2008. Classes take place at the Department of Safety Training Center in Nashville. Cadets live
at the Training Center during training.  General information on Trooper qualifications and requirements, as well as application information, is available by following the links below. "Paul's education and experience make him the right person to lead the Patrol at this time," McGrath said. "The Patrol will face some significant challenges in the next few years, including changing technology and the need for an expanded officer corps. "Col. Grimstad, as part of the new generation of leadership in the Highway Patrol, has the vision and skills to face those challenges," McGrath said. As of 2006, it has 4,545 state troopers and more than 1,600 civilian support staff. The state police Academy is located in .Pennsylvania State Police state police Pennsylvania Governor Samuel Pennypacker Coal and Iron Police police sheriffs Hershey, Pennsylvania The current is , who recently replaced . commissioner Colonel Frank Pawlowski Jeffrey B. Miller These
printable images are from the CHP's coloring book for children, available in and Meet CHIPPER: English Spanish. Helping Youth 11-14 make choices about alcohol/drug use, and not giving in to peer pressure. Making the Right Turn: Inexperience behind the wheel can be deadly. Find out how to make the road safer for new drivers. Start Smart! For Teens wishing to explore their future. The State Highway Patrol shall be subject to such orders, rules and regulations as may be adopted by the Secretary of Crime Control and Public Safety, with the approval of the Governor, and shall regularly patrol the highways
of the State and enforce all laws and regulations respecting travel and the use of vehicles upon the highways of the State and all laws for the protection of the highways of the State. The UHP has been involved in several incidents which have gained local news attention. In June of 2006, a 15-year veteran of the Utah Highway Patrol, also in charge of the DUI Task Force Unit, was charged with DUI after crashing his patrol car into a barrier on Bangerter Highway. [4] [] edit Robbery Pray set up four OSP districts in the state and thirty-one patrol stations. He began his duties on , , about two months before the State Police began operating. August 1 1931 Julius L. Meier [5] North America Royal Canadian Mounted Police New Jersey State Police Texas Rangers Pennsylvania
State Police Secretary of State June 7 1931 We
fulfill these objectives with the support of those we serve. The public's voice has historically been, and continues to be, an integral measure of our success as a public service agency. assists the public in obtaining information relative to CHP programs and/or activities. You can contact OCOR at:The Office of Community Outreach and Recruitment Agency executive http://www.kentuckystatepolice.org/ The (KSP) is a department of the Kentucky Justice and Public Safety Cabinet. The department was founded in 1948 and replaced the . The department's officers are called and its nickname is .Kentucky State Police Kentucky Highway Patrol troopersThe Thin Gray Line [5] Contents [] edit History The unit does not assist in labor disputes.Special Events Support Unit – Become a designated armorer for a district and
maintain records of each trooper's firearms to ensure compliance with Patrol policies.Weapons Maintenance Volunteer Specialties – Troopers serve as honorary escorts at home and away football games for University of Montana head coach. Test Your Street Sense Choices. Life is full of them. And some choices will
change your life forever, in an instant. If we asked you, "would you get in a car with a drunk driver?" chances are you'd answer "no way!" But it's not as simple as it sounds. We put some kids to this test, with an actor pretending to be a drunk driver...watch to find out what happens. Depending on their location, some troops are more responsible for interstate traffic patrol, while others are primarily used for local law enforcement in rural districts. Bradley International Airport Whichever duty assigned, a common motto found within the CSP is -- signifying that due to the department's small size and wide geographic reach, each individual trooper must rely on his or her own individual skills in dealing with
whatever situation arises. These knights of the road were tasked with
enforcing all the laws in South Dakota and helping to inform the public about the state's emerging traffic regulations. Each man was given a car, affectionately called a "milk wagon", a tow chain, a first aid kit, and a gallon of gasoline. The new officers were assigned to patrol the 2,000 miles (3,200 km) of hard-surfaced roads and 4,000 miles (6,400 km) of gravel highways. Regulations adopted by the department are contained in . Title 13, California Code of Regulations Questions regarding existing regulations adopted by the department may be addressed to the Office of Public Affairs or Commercial Vehicle Section. Any interested person may submit written comments on proposed regulatory actions via any of the following means: Facsimile to (916) 446-4579 -
Officers assigned to work swing shift or night shift receive a pay differential as follows:Shift Differential Swing Shift - $0.80 per hour per shift, averaging $1650 annually. Night Shift - $1.30 per hour per shift, averaging $2,650 annually. - The CHP will furnish all required safety and police protective equipment. A partial list includes:Police Protective Equipment .40 caliber Smith and Wesson pistol and required ammunition The department revived "The Flying Squadron", a motorcycle division that utilizes Harley Davidson motorcycles. A bomb squad was organized who operate state-of-the-art equipment unparalleled in Oklahoma including two bomb trucks and robots. The east and west tactical teams continue to send their troopers through specialized training programs that elevate them to the best in the state. Special Operations, formerly Criminal Interdiction, now has troopers who each have a well-trained drug canine. Self-Defense:
Consists of approximately 20 hours of active counter measures, 28 hours of defensive tactics, and 18 hours of PR-24 instruction. [6] Firearms: Recruits must show proper usage and care of all firearms issued by the state police, including the and . Recruits go through 60 hours of firearms training. SIG P228 handgun Benelli M1 shotgun [6] Water Safety: Consists of 40 hours of water safety and life saving instruction. By 1934, the highway patrol force had grown to three officers still supervised by the Inspector of the State Police. They were given silver patrol cars with gold stars on the door, red lights and sirens, and told to patrol the roads. One officer was assigned to Las Vegas, Reno and Elko. This part of the Nevada State Police remained operational until the State Police were reorganized in 1943. In 1998, Florida ranks fourth in population with an estimated 14,720,385 people. An influx of approximately 450 people per day or 160,200 people per year migrates to Florida according to the 's report on
sustaining Florida's resources. University of Florida In 2001, the FHP was heavily criticized by a article ("The Lost Patrol") that depicted the agency as understaffed and poorly managed. Patrol seizes 3 pounds of BC Bud marijuana, valued at more than $135,000 in Lucas County traffic stopTwo men from Maine and a man from Montana are facing felony drug charges after Ohio State Highway Patrol troopers seized 3 pounds of BC Bud marijuana, valued at more than $135,000 during a traffic stop Friday on the Ohio Turnpike in Lucas County. Meeting our new neighbors ... California Highway Patrol Wednesday, 04 February 2009 19:18Humphrey Cheung You know the saying, "It's a very small world"? Well that was especially true today. We're in the process of finishing up our new office in Orange, CA. Today the cabling guys had to run fiber optic and ethernet cable from the 2nd floor of the building down
to the first floor and the street. Life At The Academy Welcome to the
California Highway Patrol Academy. You have made the decision to become part of a
remarkable
organization. The California Highway Patrol is known as one of the finest law enforcement agencies in the world. The road to becoming an officer will be a challenging one. These men would serve as the benchmark to what has become a tradition of law enforcement service reaching national acclamation.[] citation
needed Harley Davidson motorcycles
and a few Chevrolet sedans were the primary modes
of transportation
utilized
by the
early troopers. There were five Troops for uniformed operations, and General Headquarters included administration, criminal identification, traffic, and teletype bureaus. In 1962, the New Hampshire State Police became a division of the newly developed New Hampshire Department of Safety. (405) 425-2424 - Aircraft Hanger 14, Wiley Post Bethany, OK 73008Troop O (405) 789-4012 - CapitolPatrol P.O. Box 53363 Oklahoma City, OK 73152Troop R (405) 521-4541 - Size&Weight 32 N.E. 23rd Street Oklahoma City, OK 73136Troop S (405) 521-6103 - SpecialOps 3600 N. MLK Blvd. Oklahoma City, OK 73136Troop SO The growing License and Weight Service was renamed Commercial Vehicle Enforcement Service. In addition, two new regions were created and headquartered in McAllen and at the Capitol, and a new Highway Patrol District was headquartered in Bryan. Today, there are currently 18 Highway Patrol Districts and 2,174 commissioned officers, including supervisors in the Highway Patrol Service. Office of the Special Representative Office of Media Relations Assistant Commissioner, Field Operations - Arthur Anderson Northern Division State Terrorism Threat Assessment Center
Assistant Commissioner, Staff Operations - K.P. Green Administrative Services Division Assistant Commissioner, Leadership Development & Communications Office of Media Relations Office of Community Outreach & Recruitment Office of the Academy Agency executive James F. Keathley, Colonel Superintendent Parent agency MSHP Website The is the agency for and has anywhere within the state.Missouri State Highway Patrol highway patrol Missouri jurisdiction State laws pertaining to the Highway Patrol including its creation, powers, structure, mission and duties are specified in Chapter 43 of Missouri Revised Statues (RSMo). Today there are numerous Federal statutes and regulations extending civil rights protections to persons with disabilities, including the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA), as well as the 1998 Amendments to the , where specific technical requirements for accessible web design have been published by the U.S. Access Board. This is important since of the ADA recognizes the importance of communication and the necessity of the State of California to take appropriate steps to ensure that communications with persons with disabilities are as effective as communications with others. Division of Alaska State Troopers The Division of Alaska State Troopers (AST) is charged with statewide law enforcement, prevention of crime, pursuit and apprehension of offenders, service of civil and
criminal process, prisoner transportation, central communications, and search and rescue. The Division is divided into five detachments and two bureaus. Detachments A, B, C, D, and E, and , and . The Enforcement Bureau is responsible for the enforcement of all rules and regulations pertaining to
the safe operation of commercial
vehicles on the roads and highways of Arizona. The primary emphasis is on vehicle safety, driver safety, and proper authority and compliance for vehicles operating in commerce. Commercial Vehicle [] edit DUI Enforcement Unit Patch of the Mississippi Highway Safety Patrol. Mississippi Highway Safety Patrol door seal 535 (as of 2004) [3] Civilians 495 (as of 2004) [4] Agency executive Mississippi Highway Patrol website The is the agency for , which has over most of the state and federal highways in the State of Mississippi. It was formed in 1938 to enforce traffic laws on state and federal highways.Mississippi Highway Patrol highway patrol Mississippi jurisdiction [5] Keyboard navigation as well as voice recognition software may be used by this population to help navigate through a web site.Mobility. To appeal to a highly diverse audience, with varying levels of ability, use the following design principles: Simple navigation, consistency in content presentation, clear labels, meaningful content, executive summaries at top of long documents and vocabulary understood by a wide audience.Cognitive and Specific Learning Disabilities. A superintendent, assistant superintendent, and 45 troopers were hired to reduce crashes by enforcing traffic, vehicle, and license laws. Police Department veteran Jack B. Jenkins was the first superintendent. Kansas City The governor appointed the superintendent, and the superintendent appointed the rest. All appointees had to pass a physical exam and be U.S. citizens, at least 24 years old, of good health and moral character, and without a criminal record. Southeast Region: Fargo and Jamestown Southwest Region: Bismarck and Dickinson Northwest Region: Minot and Williston Troopers work
within their regions, however they
have
equal jurisdiction throughout the state. [] edit Highway Patrol symbol The
North Dakota Highway Patrol symbol is a profile of Red Tomahawk, a Teton
Dakotah
() who lived on his land near the on the near . Michigan state law requires that police vehicles be marked at least on the passenger side; a law that dates back to the days of the "side stop."[] citation needed MSP Capitol Patrol Car Both the rotating overhead light and the shark fin have traditionally been synonymous with the MSP. The shark fin was used for a side stop, which was employed when a Trooper was stopping another vehicle.  Trooper Hoffman's years of service were from October 1, 1978 to March 12, 1980.   Trooper Hoffman died from his injuries after being struck by a truck during a routine traffic stop north of Freeman, South Dakota.  Trooper Hoffman will be remembered for his commitment to service and his helping ways. This location presented a rugged endurance and survival test for cadets since the concrete grandstand leaked in rainy weather and it was almost impossible to heat the classroom and dormitory areas. A shortage of funds in 1938 caused the Academy to be suspended as a full-time training school and for the next 11 years it operated sporadically for recruit classes
only. Community Relations Office -
Sergeant Roger K. Hughes Field Operations Region Two - Major (Vacant) Troop Five - Captain Melvin Warren Troop Six - Captain James A. Woods Troop Seven - Captain Christopher N. Williamson Support Services - Major (Vacant) Troop Eight/Aggressive Criminal Enforcement Team (ACE) - Captain C.J. Madden Troop Eleven/Headquarters - (Vacant) Training Unit - Captain Darryl A. That same year the first 125 graduated from the Highway Patrol Academy. The new state troopers met resistance from Oklahoma motorists who were not used to living within the bounds of traffic regulations when none had ever before existed. But the troopers were prepared for this as they paved the way for all future officers by exerting good manners and service to all citizens. Since the establishment of the Washington State Patrol, 26 officers have died in the line of duty. The most recent, Trooper James E. Saunders, died on October 7, 1999, at the age of 31 from gunshot wounds while conducting a traffic stop in Pasco. At the time of his death, Trooper Saunders had served 8-1/2 years with the Washington State Patrol. The CHP's salary,
medical benefits, and retirement plans are extremely attractive.  They include a salary competitive with other California law enforcement agencies; medical, dental, and vision benefits for the entire family; andup to 90 percent retirement based on years of service and age. Military personnel who wish to apply to become a CHP Officer need not be a California resident, and prior law enforcement experience is not necessary. I am committed to providing South Dakotans and web site visitors with the most current, timely, and comprehensive information available. As the Internet and the World Wide Web continue to grow, the South Dakota Highway Patrol will use this means of communication to inform, educate, and aid our communication with the public. Our efforts are consistent with the objectives of Governor M. Only individuals who are personally contacted for employment testing and/or final interviews are notified of the final selection decision. Applications for civilian, uniform-civilian, and temporay positions will be held on file for six months. Applicants may request their application be pulled for vacancy(s) during the six month time-frame by contacting the facilitator assigned to the vacancy. Sergeant Thomas Higgins Nevada Highway Patrol - Elko Technical Sergeant, Air Force Reserves Status: De-Activated & Discharged Operation Noble Eagle Sergeant Novelt Mack Nevada Highway Patrol - Laughlin Master Sergeant, Air Force Reserves Status: De-Activated Operation Noble Eagle Trooper Kevin McNeal Nevada Highway Patrol - Las Vegas Corporal, US Marine Corps Reserves Status: De-Activated Operation Enduring Freedom