Orange County Recreation & Parks Department, (919) 245-2660. Birdhouses on Parade, Chapel Hill. The Carolina Inn, (919) 933-2001. Basketball Championships, campus, Chapel Hill. North Carolina High
School Athletic Association, (919) 962-2345. NCHSAAUNC April Cool Jazz Festival, Hillsborough. Orange County Recreation & Parks Department, (919) 245-2660. Outdoor Family Pops Concert, Hillsborough. Alliance for Historic Hillsborough, (919) 732-7741.     July 1, 2008 Lantern Table - Greece featuring Haw River Wine Man,  Eco Farm and Peregrine Farm Warm Therapni kalamata olives Charred eggplant salad with wild sumac Grilled octopus with aleppo pepper and mint Homemade yogurt with cucumbers & fennel Overnight fresh-pulled garlic in Greek olive oil Heirloom tomato and cucumber salad with pickled torpedo onions, Chapel Hill Creamery feta and borage flowers Crispy North Carolina butterfish with preserved lemon and olive brown butter Spit-roasted leg of lamb with braised gigante beans and slow cooked tomatoes, salt-cured capers and fresh oregano
Blue Ridge Mountain cherries and peaches in a honey-wine bath with cherry stone ice cream producers: Ayrshire Farm, Aimless Farm, Bracken Brae Farm, Chapel Hill
Creamery, Eco Farm, Ferguson Farm, Fickle Creek Farm, Lee’s Bees, Levering Orchards, Maple View Dairy, Peregrine Farm, Rainbow Meadow Farms, Tom Robinson Seafood Baby Green Bean Casseroles with Fried Onion Crust; Chicken Marsala and Wild Rice Mushroom Pot Pie; Chilaquiles; Creamy Baked Pasta; Potato Casserole with Ham and Provolone; Streusel Topped Apple Terrine. 3 HoursPOT PIES AND CASSEROLES Wednesday, January 21, 2009 at 6:30 $55(H) Handle your knife safely and
efficiently while you
dice, mince, slice and chiffonade your way through a myriad of ingredients.   Our special guests included James Stock of Haw River Wine Man, who shared some of his amazing wines from the sandy, volcanic soil of Santorini and the Peleponese along with his family's organically produced olives and olive
oil, John
and Cindy Soehner of Eco Farm and Alex and Betsy Hitt of Peregrine Farm, who treated us to an early preview of their tomato harvest. Baby greens with toasted pecans, pecorino noci, shaved chiogga beets, fennel and parchment bread in apple vinaigrette Beef tenderloin carpaccio with horseradish cream, white beans and arugula in olive oil Cheese plate:  "Silk Hope" goat cheese with green tomato preserves, Black pepper Il Duca with pear and honey, Paesano with pickled beet and
olive oil Grilled bruschetta with sunny side up egg, shaved prosciutto, arugula and parmesan Menu About Panciuto When Panciuto opened in 2006, it did so with the goal of providing our customers with simple, creative and memorable meals in a comfortable dining room with attentive and friendly service.   Always committed to sustainable and local agriculture we have, since opening, become even more dedicated to using products from the freshest locally
available
meats and produce possible. This is the scarlet hibiscus, one of our favorite southeast natives.Native Plants   Adhering to principles means that each part of our diverse farm benefits from and is a benefit to several other pieces of our overall operation. Pictured is our pigs benefiting from the output from our market garden.Permaculture Availability is limited, so please call us if you'd like to check on specials for a specific night Soup Vietnamese shrimp and rice soup with
black pepper and local peagreens Appetizers Thai marinanted minced local pork in lettuce cups with lemongrass, chiles and toasted rice  Lantern spicy seafood salad- diver scallop, NC shrimp & fresh squid  with roasted chiles and lemongrass  Occoneechee Mountain State Natural Area Originally settled by the , the Occoneechee
Mountain State Natural Area has a diversity of natural communities including undisturbed forest and a wide variety of wildlife species. Occaneechi Band of the Saponi Nation Preview your trip on the web: Occoneechee Mountain State Natural Area Learn more Take exit 157 - Buckhorn Road. Turn right at top of exit ramp going south on Buckhorn Road. Go 4.5 miles. Look for black mailbox 4122 on right. Opposite mailbox turn left into gravel drive. Bear left at first fork. Bear right at second fork. Take exit 160 - Efland. Fearrington residents have access to a myriad of
churches, synagogues and other places of worship in
the area, including Anglican Catholic, Baptist, Bible, Roman Catholic, Charismatic, Christian Science, Church of Christ, Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, Episcopal, Greek Orthodox, Jehovah's Witnesses, Lutheran, Methodist, Presbyterian, Seventh-Day Adventist, and Unitarian Schools. Deinhard    Ruppertsberger Spiess, Pfalz, Germany '93 Riesling Auslese, Ansgar Clüsserath    Trittenheimer Apotheke, Mosel, Germany '88 Melon De Bourgogne, Domaine Luneau-Papin     “L d'Or,” Muscadet, France ‘95  Sauvignon Blanc, Lucien Crochet     Sancerre, Loire,  France '06      Sauvignon Blanc, Edmond Vatan    "Clos La Néore," Sancerre, France '05 Marsanne-Clairette Blend, Domaine du Bagnol    Cassis, Provence, France ’06     Chardonnay, Domaine des Moirots    Burgundy, France ’07  Chardonnay, Domaine Oudin   "Les Serres," Chablis, France '05             Chardonnay, Jean-Marc Pillot    "les grands champs," Burgundy,
France '05     Saumur, Loire, France ‘06 Gamay blend, Domaine de la Pépiere     Cuvée Granit, Loire, France ‘07        Barbera, DeForville    Alba, Piedmont, Italy ’06 Cabernet-Merlot blend, Chateau La Rame    Sainte Croix du Mont, Bordeaux, France '06 Syrah Blend, Domaine Massiac    Minervois, France '06 Pinot Noir,  Vignoble Klur   “Katz,” Alsace, France ’07 Mencia, D. Georg Jensen Sterling Silver Pitcher SOLD: $7,150. Albert Bailey (Br, fl. 1890-1904), By Rushy Banks, oil on canvas. SOLD: $11,000. Ken Carlson (TX, b.
1937), Brown Bear in the Tundra, SOLD: $17,600. Chippendale Tilt Top Tea Table, PA, 18th c., SOLD: $27,500. Alfred Hutty (SC, 1877-1954), "Calhoun Street," watercolor on Bainbridge board, SOLD: $30,000. This lovely salad from Panciuto restaurant in Hillsborough, N.C., features figs two ways. Keywords: This spread makes one heck of a sandwich. Parker and Otis, a specialty foods store in Durham, N.C., uses this pimiento dip in a Southern-style grilled cheese. Keywords: These
frozen treats from LocoPops, in Durham, N.C., capture a great autumnal flavor in a traditional summertime indulgence. Salmon and crab cakes with light lemon sauce ,   homemade chicken noodle soupFriday: Plus: Organic vegetables this week are: red and white sweet potatoes, Yukon gold potatoes, butternut squash, carrots, fickle creek eggs, Nooherooka natural beef , fickle creek pork, rainbow meadows
sausages and chicken   - Individual Carrot Cakes, Chocolate Cream Pie, Pumpkin Cheese Cake, Peanut Butter CookiesMonday Catered food & drinks at every auction! CLIMATE-CONTROLLED BUILDING 7% N.C. State Sales Tax will be charged unless you have a Sales Tax ID on file. We accept MasterCard, VISA, American Express, and Discover. No surcharge. From Raleigh & Chapel Hill: I-40 West to Exit 160. Turn right off exit; turn right after railroad tracks. 4 rooms. Situated west of Chapel Hill on 10 beautiful country acres, this award-winning historic inn (c. 1790 log cabin, 1801 Federal-style and 1835 Greek Revival) has four rooms with private baths, fireplaces, suite with whirlpool, cable TV and offers full breakfast and wine & cheese. Free local calls. Wireless hot-spot.     Daily soup Lantern local pasture-raised pork and chive dumplings Fresh black mushroom and cabbage dumplings Spicy curried beets with black cumin, crème fraîche and pappadum Local pasture-raised chicken spring rolls with Edwards country ham,           oyster mushrooms and hot mustard Sake and tea-cured salmon bento box with house pickled ginger and red cabbage,           wasabi, miso-mayonnaise, sticky rice and nori Salt and pepper shrimp - fresh NC shrimp with crispy shells, fried jalapenos,           coriander and
sea salt Head-to-tail Fickle
Creek
Farm pork terrine with pickled green tomatoes Spicy sesame noodles with napa cabbage, carrots, cucumber and cilantro Lantern local pickle plate Chaat - roasted local cauliflower, crispy chickpeas, potatoes,           pickled red onions and mint chutney Seasonal greens with ume plum vinaigrette T he locavore movement, a new trend that advocates eating food from local farms is not only promoting good food but new scholarship and teaching. Master of Arts in Liberal Studies (MALS) class, "What's for Dinner: Culture and Agriculture," sat down around the conference table at the MALS office on Campus Drive
for dinner and discussion on
the ethical and practical implications of sustaining small local farmers.Last month, 14 students in the The 729-acre campus is now part of a 16-unit statewide system and has an enrollment of 27,000 students, with a 3,100-member faculty. It is both beautiful and historic. 2. Franklin
Street Downtown Chapel Hill Sports Illustrated has said that Chapel Hill is the best college town in America, and Franklin Street (named after Benjamin Franklin) is one reason why. Go through one more light and begin to look for Lantern on the left after passing McDonald's. We are located at 423 West Franklin Street, directly across the street from Elaine's, the West End Wine Bar, and the Cavern.Valet Parking Now Available Complimentary valet parking is now available across the street from Lantern Monday-Saturday from 5:30 - 11pm.