While several surveys have shown that Indigenous Australians are less likely than other Australians to drink alcohol (ABS 2002; AIHW 2003), those who do so are more likely to consume it at hazardous levels. The 2004-05 National Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health Survey (NATSIHS) showed that 48% of Indigenous
people aged 18 years and over had consumed alcohol in the week prior to interview; the 2004-05 National Health Survey showed that a higher proportion (62%) of all respondents consumed alcohol in the week prior to interview.  The 2004-05 NATSIHS found that, of the Indigenous Australians
surveyed who had consumed alcohol in the week prior to interview, 16% had consumed alcohol at a high risk level. Although only 36% of Indigenous people living in remote areas consumed alcohol in the week prior to interview compared to 54% of Indigenous people living in non-remote areas, the proportion who drank at high risk levels was similar. What causes cervical cancer? A1. Cervical cancer is caused by persistent infection with a common and contagious virus, , which is transmitted through sexual contact and skin to skin contact. Cervical cancer begins in the cervix and becomes gradually more invasive if left untreated. human
papillomavirus (HPV)
Q2. What is HPV? A2. HPV is the abbreviation for human papillomavirus, a common and contagious virus. There are more than 100 types of HPV; more than 30 of which are spread
through sexual contact. These can be further divided into oncogenic and non-oncogenic types. There are at least 15 oncogenic types of HPV that can lead to cervical cancer. Types
16, 18, 45 and 31 are collectively responsible for 80 percent of cervical cancers globally. Moreover, they have been found to carry the same types of genital papilloma viruses (e.g., types 16 and 18) that cause cervical cancer. Finally, women with active infection can transfer the virus to their newborn (vertical transmission) during delivery, which can
result in papilloma virus infection in the neonate and possible subsequent laryngeal papillomatosis (Cason, Rice and Best 1998).in situ Preventing Cervical Cancer: Two Union
Women Take Action >> Download this
article camera-ready for magazines in or color grayscale >> More about the organizations founded by and Christine Tamika   Union members Christine Baze and Tamika Felder are survivors of cervical cancer. They have used their experiences to let women
know that the #1 risk factor for
cervical cancer is not being screened regularly. Additionally, both Christine and Tamika educate women about the link between human papillomavirus (HPV) and cervical cancer, so that women understand that persistent high risk HPV infections are the cause of cervical cancer. The Pap test can detect cell changes caused by HPV, while the HPV test can detect the virus
that causes these
changes. The Pap test is the appropriate screening test for women younger than 30; a Pap and HPV test together are appropriate for women 30 or older. Unfortunately, these facts are not well known. As a result, the American Cancer Society estimates that in
2006, about 9,710 cases of invasive cervical cancer will be diagnosed in the United States and nearly 3,700 women will die from it.   Breast Cancer Diagnostic Algorithms, 2005 (3rd Ed.) The Breast Cancer Diagnostic Algorithms for Primary Care Providers were developed to aid primary care clinicians with the work-up of breast abnormalities and to promote an understanding of the breast cancer risk assessment process. Five separate algorithms are available to guide the work-up of various breast abnormalities or suspicious findings detected during a woman's breast cancer screening visit. When a breast abnormality is identified either at the
clinical breast examination or following a routine screening mammogram, these guidelines can help the primary care provider rule-out breast cancer as a diagnostic possiblity and ensure true cancers are detected without undue delay. A woman's risk of developing breast cancer should be assessed at each routine screening visit since her personal risk factors can change
over time. The newly developed algorithm provides a basic guide for primary care providers to follow. A sample is also available to assist in the assessment process. Assessment of Risk Breast Cancer History and Risk Assessment Form The following algorithms provide guidance for the work-up of a: having a male sexual partner who has had a sexual partner with cervical cancer family history of cervical cancer lower
socioeconomic status history of lower genital tract dysplasia or cancer   > next page  Worldwide, cervical cancer affects 450,000 women per year and it is the third most common cancer to affect women in the world (after skin cancer and breast cancer)  All the content contained herein is copyrighted
pursuant to federal law. Duplication
or use without the express written permission of DrDonnica.com subjects the violator to both civil & criminal
penalties. But some fish may contain a chemical
called mercury which can be dangerous
to the body. According to the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, nearly all of Wisconsin’s 15,000 lakes and 57,000 miles of rivers and streams are under a general fish consumption advisory because of elevated mercury contamination levels.
Usually due to a diet high in fish, mercury poisoning poses a threat to pregnant women and children under the age of 15 years old.Mercury in Fish A Woman and Child's Guide to Eating Fish from Wisconsin (pdf file) Hair Loss Mistakenly thought to be a strictly male disease, women actually make up 40% percent of American hair loss sufferers. Hair
loss in women can be absolutely devastating for the sufferer's self image and emotional well being. Breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a procedure being studied more frequently for its role in detecting breast cancer, including the diagnosis of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) and contralateral breast cancer (breast cancer in the opposite breast) at the time of a first breast cancer occurrence. EARLY DETECTION January is Cervical Health
Awareness Month.Cervical cancer is cancer that starts in the cervix. is Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology; and Director, University of Arizona National Center of Excellence in Women's Health and the Arizona Hispanic Center of Excellence, Tucson, AZ.Dr. Saslow Dr. Castle Dr. Partridge Dr. Garcia This article is available online at To earn free CME credit for successfully
completing the online quiz based on this
article, go to .
Disclosures: Workgroup members were asked to disclose relationships, including potential financial conflicts of interest, with vaccine manufacturers or trials. The following was disclosed: F. Garcia participated in an expert panel for GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) for an unrelated immune therapeutic class of agents; C. Cohen is a paid speaker for Merck; T. Cox is a paid member of the Merck Data Safety and Monitoring Committee and received an honorarium for serving on one management advisory board for GSK; D. Davey serves on the working group of the NCI-sponsored trial of GSK vaccine in Costa Rica; M. Einstein has received research support from GSK for a
nonvaccine-related activity and serves on the speaker's bureau for Merck, but receives no salary support or honorarium; D. Within each stratum, specific days were selected by using systematic sampling, and every woman who gave birth on selected days (within a cluster of days) was included in the sample. Of the 999 women sampled on selected days from August 21
through November 9, 2005, 947 (95%) completed interviews. The BMSCP pilot project was reviewed for human subject concerns by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and was determined to be onresearchor public health practice. A more thorough description of the data collection and other aspects of the BMSCP is provided elsewhere (13). [ . ] View enlarged image and descriptive text Maps of the US-Mexico Border Region (Top) and of Brownsville, Texas, and Matamoros, Tamaulipas, Mexico (Bottom). (The authors thank Allison Abell Banicki of the
Office of Border Health, Texas
Department of State Health Services, for creating the map of the Texas-Mexico border states and thank Jean W. Parcher, Sylvia N. Wilson, and the United States Geological Survey [USGS] for providing the map of population density in Brownsville and Matamoros.)Figure.   Each year, about 15,000 women in the United States learn they have cervical cancer. Most cases of cervical cancer are caused by infection with human
papillomavirus (HPV). Learn about treatment options as well as the effectiveness of the HPV vaccine. Cervical Cancer Screening & Prevention M. D. Anderson's Screening Guidelines (Updated December 2006) Women at average risk of cervical cancer: Beginning three years after initiating
vaginal intercourse (but no later than age 21) Liquid-based Pap test every two years Beginning at age 30 Liquid-based Pap test and human papilloma virus (HPV) test every three years HPV testing is not recommended as part of the Pap test for women under age 30 as studies have shown HPV screening at this age to be ineffective. Since the Pap test became a routine test for women in the
, cervical cancer
now makes up less than 2% of all cancers in women in this country.  United States EARLY DETECTION Genital human papillomavirus (HPV) is the most common sexually transmitted infection (STI). The virus infects the skin and mucous membranes. There are more than 40 HPV types that can infect the genital areas of men and women, including the skin of the penis, vulva (area outside the vagina), and anus, and the linings of the vagina, cervix, and rectum. You cannot see HPV. Most people who become infected with HPV do not even know they have it. Jhpiego works with ministries of health and national stakeholders to implement a sustainable and comprehensive
approach to cervical cancer prevention, as illustrated below. Components of a Comprehensive Cervical Cancer Program Summaries of Jhpiego's Current Work A study by Jhpiego in Roi Et province established the safety, acceptability, feasibility and program effort (SAFE) associated with implementing a single visit approach to cervical cancer prevention using visual inspection with acetic acid (VIA) and cryotherapy, as well
as the effectiveness of advocacy efforts spearheaded by Jhpiego. As a result, the single visit approach is now part of a two-pronged strategy adopted and funded by the Thai government to prevent cervical cancer. Jhpiego has recently completed an evaluation study focused on how high-quality services have been maintained
and how the program has been sustained since
external funding was withdrawn in 2005.THAILAND: We excel at all aspects of diagnostic intervention and are constantly conducting research to further improve the field. Particularly notable are our advanced capabilities for screening and management of ovarian cancer. We offer a full genetic and clinical
screening program that includes . Those at risk are candidates for preventive surgery or other interventions. genetic counseling and testing Upon diagnosis, Montefiore provides the  available, including surgery, chemotherapy and radiation. In 2008, an estimated 11,070 women in the United States will be diagnosed with cervical cancer. It is estimated that 3,870 deaths from the disease will occur this year. The number of new cases of cervical cancer is decreasing as screening with the Pap test (see ) becomes more prevalent. The number of cervical cancer deaths continues to decrease each year. Prevention The one-year relative survival rate
(percentage of patients who survive at least one year after the cancer is detected, excluding those who die from other diseases) of women with
cervical cancer is 88%. The five-year relative
survival rate (percentage of patients who survive at least five years after the cancer is detected, excluding those who die from other diseases) for all stages of cervical cancer is 72%. When detected at an early stage, the five-year survival rate for women with invasive cervical cancer is
92%. Cancer survival statistics should be interpreted with caution. These estimates are based on data from thousands of cases of this type of cancer in the United States each year, but the actual risk for a particular individual may differ. NIH merit award "in recognition of research
contributions to clarify racial
disparity of prostate cancer" 1999 DCEG Intramural Research Award for study of hormones in prostate tissue to assess the role of intraprostatic androgenic action in prostate cancer 1996-8 James Lacey 2005 DCEG Intramural Research Award for study of PTEN tumor suppressor gene alterations in the progression from endometrial hyperplasia to carcinoma 2005 NIH Merit Award "For his scientific contributions which have
clarified the role of a variety of hormonal factors in the etiology of ovarian and endometrial cancers" 2003 Third place poster prize, American College of Epidemiology
Annual Meeting, Chicago, IL 2003 DCEG Most
Cited Paper in 2002 Award, NCI, NIH, Bethesda, MD 2001 Katherine McGlynn 2006 NIH Merit Award for "Completion of the Servicemen's Testicular Tumor Environmental and Endocrine Determinants Study, a novel investigation which should provide etiologic insights regarding this poorly understood tumor." RECOMMENDATIONS BACKGROUND RATIONALE AND EVIDENCE FOR... ANTICIPATED IMPACT OF HPV... VACCINE IMPLEMENTATION AND...
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ADDITIONAL... CONCLUSION GYNECOLOGIC CANCER ADVISORY... REFERENCES The ACS Guideline panel worked parallel to, but independentfrom, the Federal Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices(ACIP) and the ACIP working group on HPV. The ACIP developswritten recommendations for the routine administration of vaccineswith the goals of reducing the incidence of vaccine-preventablediseases and increasing the safe usage of vaccines. ACIP recommendationsinclude the appropriate periodicity, dosage, and contraindicationsapplicable to vaccines. The ACIP voted on recommendations forHPV vaccination in June 2006; a full report will be publishedin and available at .Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report http://www.cdc.gov/nip/publications/acip-list.htm    RECOMMENDATIONS TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION GUIDELINE DEVELOPMENT RECOMMENDATIONS TABLE Summary of American Cancer Society (ACS) Recommendations for Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccine Use to Prevent Cervical Cancer and Its Precursors1 Their high rates of lung cancer are unexpected, giventhe low prevalence of smoking among Chinese women in
California.According to CHIS data, only 2.2% of Chinese women report thatthey were current smokers, and only 5.4% were former smokers(). Chinese American women are commonly exposed to secondhandsmoke at home and at the work site. Exposure to cookingoil from high-temperature frying may contribute to lung cancerrisk among Chinese women in the United States, as it has beenproposed to do in China. Lung cancer incidence
among womenin China (19.0/100,000) ranks as the ninth highest worldwide(). Indoor cooking and heating with coal has been linkedto the high lung cancer incidence and mortality among Chinesewomen in China, but this is an extremely uncommonexposure in the United States.  Screening for colorectal and prostate cancer is less commonamong Chinese men than non-Hispanic White men, but more commonthan among other Asian
ethnic groups, except Japanese men. Women's Health Breast & Cervical Cancer The Mississippi Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program strives for early detection of
cancer in those women at highest risk. Typically, these are the uninsured, the medically
underserved, minority, and elderly women. These women are more likely to have advanced disease when symptoms appear, reflecting differences in access to screening and care. With federal and matching funds, MSDH/BCCP offers Pap exam screening services at health department clinics, Community Health Centers and private providers to uninsured women between the ages of 40 and 64. Mammography screening is available
through contracted providers to uninsured women between 50 and 64 years of age and older. Women 40 to 49 are eligible for screening mammograms
when special funding is available. Special exceptions are available for those women between the ages of 18 and 39, but they must receive prior approval. .Please contact us to
determine if the patient qualifies For further information about Breast and Cervical Cancer call  (601) 576-7466.   IDRI is working with to create and test a vaccine to help prevent chlamydia. Chlamydia is usually an asymptomatic disease, so those who are infected do not always seek available antibiotic treatment. A vaccine is needed to efficiently treat and eliminate chlamydia
worldwide.
GlaxoSmithKline About Chlamydia Chlamydia currently has one of the fastest rates of infection among sexually transmitted diseases in the developed world. If left untreated, chlamydia can ultimately result in infertility in both men and women. A considerable amount of experimental data suggests that vitamin A and its derivatives inhibit HPV-associated proliferation; several trials using retinoids are now nearing completion. A randomized trial using locally applied beta-trans-retinoic acid demonstrated increased regression of CIN 2, but not CIN 3;[]
however, this treatment approach remains experimental. Current standard treatment modalities are extremely effective in eradicating SIL and preventing development of invasive
cervical cancer. The agency's mission is to coordinate and conduct research on the causes of human cancer and the mechanisms of carcinogenesis, and to develop scientific strategies for cancer control.International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) Visit website IAVI is a global nonprofit, public-private partnership working to accelerate the development of a vaccine to prevent HIV infection and AIDS. IAVI researches and develops vaccine candidates, conducts policy analyses, and serves as an advocate for the field with offices in Africa, India, and
Europe.International AIDS Vaccine Initiative (IAVI) National Alopecia Areata Foundation Lesbian Health Lesbians have most of the same health concerns as other women. But lesbians have different ones, too. Lesbians have faced centuries of discrimination that posed a variety of health challenges. Today, with stronger community ties and support from LGBT community and health centers, many corporations, health
organizations, and city and state ordinances and statutes, lesbians are more empowered to meet these challenges. Page Not Found The page you are looking for could not be found. We apologize for the inconvenience and encourage you to use one of the following methods to obtain assistance or locate the information you need: Join a with an ASCP customer
representative, Monday  Friday, from 8 a.m.  5 p.m. CT. live chat Call customer service at 800.267.2727, option 2, Monday  Friday, from 8 a.m.  5 p.m. CT. Fill out a so that ASCP customer service can respond to your needs.
Customer Feedback Form Visit our section to find information on popular ASCP topics. Need Help Visit the ASCP.org to locate what you are
looking for by section. Site Map About 5% to 7% of pap smears produce abnormal results, such as dysplasia, possibly indicating a pre-cancerous
condition. Although many low grade cervical
dysplasias spontaneously regress without ever leading to cervical cancer, dysplasia can serve as an indication
that increased vigilance is needed.
Endocervical and endometrial abnormalities can also be detected, as can a number of infectious processes, including yeast and Trichomonas vaginalis. A small proportion of abnormalities are reported as of "uncertain significance". Technical aspects Samples are collected from the outer opening or os of the cervix using an Aylesbury spatula or (more frequently with the advent of liquid-based cytology) a plastic-fronded broom. Since there are usually no early symptoms, regular Pap tests are essential for early detection. Pap tests are also important for detecting cervical abnormalities before they become cancerous. Most invasive cervical cancers (between 60% and 80%) are found in women who have not had a Pap test within the past 5 years. Key Statistics: In 2007, an estimated 11,150 new cases of invasive cervical cancer will be diagnosed in the United States.       AlsoRecommends 1. Know What to Ask Your Doctor  -  Learn about a treatment option that works in a different way than traditional therapies. 2. The Cancer Patient's Workbook: Everything You Need to Stay Organized and Informed! 3. 50
Essential Things To Do: When the Doctor Says It's Cancer. 4.5. Subscribe the monthly newsletter of The Cancer Informa-  tion Network. Dietary factors may be potentiating the role of other risk factors. Most of the cancers have some relationships with diet predominant among them are cancers of the upper aero digestive tract (mouth, throat), oesophagus (food pipe and lungs), stomach, large intestine, and breast cancer in women. The idea that nutrition is an important factor in cancer causation is not new. Yong-He Yan living in Song Dynasty( 960-1279 AD) thought that poor nutrition was a cause of the condition now known as oesophageal (food pipe )cancer. Lambe in 1815 warned against the danger of excess consumption of food in general and meat in particular. Roger Williams in 1908 observed that excessive feeding especially meat, deficient exercise and probably lack of sufficient vegetable
food are the predisposing factors for cancer. In one of the earliest epidemiological studies on record Orr 91933, who undertook a study in Travancore on oral cancer identified low intake of vegetables and fruits as risk factors. Radon detectors were placed in the main bedroom and the living room in each residence for two consecutive 6-month periods. Confirming prior studies, the researchers found a positive link between indoor radon and lung cancer. The odds of developing lung cancer rose with increasing levels of residential radon exposure. Overall, the increase was generally not statistically significant, although significance was reached for some high radon exposure categories. They also report that individuals with low-medium consumption of dietary oxidants tended to be at greater risk for developing lung cancer. The possibility that dietary antioxidants may modify the
effects of radon on lung cancer risk should be studied further, they conclude. (MEN-stroo-al) refers to menstruation (men-stroo-AY-shun), the
discharging through the vagina of blood and tissue from the uterus that recurs each month in women of reproductive age,*menstrual The causes of uterine cancer are less clearly defined, and so it is difficult to say how it might be prevented. Women who have irregular menstrual periods, which may mean that they have a hormonal imbalance, should be evaluated by a doctor. Hormonal treatment may reduce the risk of uterine cancer. As with other forms of cancer, eating a health-ful diet high in fruits and vegetables and low in animal fat, as well as* Iron and lipids combine to create oxidative stress, and oxidative stress has a role in the development of cancer. Growing body of evidence linking increased night light to certain types of cancer has led researchers to suspect it could be connected to the steady increase in cases of childhood leukemia. Scientists presenting research at the First International Scientific Conference on Childhood Leukemia said that light at night and working shifts, which disrupts the body's internal clock, have been associated with an raised risk of breast and colorectal
cancer. The most common are surgery, and
radiation, and in some cases the use of two or more methods works best. These treatment options all may have profound and lasting physical effects – including early menopause and loss of fertility. chemotherapy Translating medical “jargon” A cancer that begins in glandular tissue. Adjuvant A substance that, when used in
combination with antigens in vaccines, increases or enhances the body immune response to a vaccine. The use of adjuvants in vaccines,
conventionally formulated only with aluminum salt, is very common. Antibody A protein found in the blood that is produced by specific immune system cells (B cells and plasma cells) in response to an invading bacteria or virus. Montefiore is a member of the prestigious Gynecology Oncology Group, a non-profit organization that promotes excellence in gynecologic oncology research and therapy. Our ongoing commitment to research is an outstanding benefit to our patients, who are often involved in therapeutic or investigational protocols run through the National Cancer Institute and the National
Institute of Health. Montefiore has been actively involved in a trial for the human papillomavirus (HPV), a sexually transmitted disease that has been
associated with the development of cervical cancer. Our efforts are focused on patients with pre-malignant conditions of the cervix, offering them a vaccine against the virus.
The second phase of our trial will include both treatment and prevention initiatives. Montefiore has long been a leading force in battling cervical cancer. Our patients were among the first nationwide to receive new treatment therapies that include coordinated chemotherapy and radiation
therapy and high-dose-rate
brachytherapy (HDR). Patients with recurrent cervical cancer receive the latest advanced medical therapies, including Montefiore's nationally
recognized . If you have any or if your doctor found a mass during a routine pelvic exam, he or she is likely to ask questions about the following: Medical history Prompt attention to signs and symptoms is the best approach to diagnose most thyroid cancers early. Thyroid cancer can cause any of the following local signs or symptoms: a lump or swelling in the neck, sometimes growing rapidly  a pain in the front of the neck, sometimes going up to the ears  hoarseness or other voice change that does not go away  trouble swallowing  breathing problems (feeling as if one were "breathing through a straw")  a cough that continues and is not due to a cold Since it is known smoking tobacco causes most cases of lung cancer, women who smoke or have smoked are at the highest risk.If you are having symptoms, your doctor will ask you some questions regarding the following:  Medical History If you have symptoms of colorectal cancer, your doctor will want to know why. To find out, your doctor is likely to ask you questions about the following things. Strategies to combine diagnosis and treatment such as loop
electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) may be appropriate, particularly in women for
whom follow-up is not effective.[] Despite the efficacy of excisional treatment of intraepithelial lesions in reducing the risk of developing invasive cervical cancer, the risk of cancer remains elevated above that of the general population and warrants careful follow-up for at least 8 to 10 years.[] The slow progression of preinvasive disease
into invasive cancer and the easy access to visual and cytologic investigation makes squamous intraepithelial lesions an ideal disease for chemoprevention clinical trials. Multiple case-control studies support the chemopreventive role of micronutrients. 9 10 References: American Cancer
Society: Cancer Facts and Figures-2002. Atlanta, Ga: American Cancer Society, 2002. : Statistical model of the natural history of cervical carcinoma. II: estimates of the transition time from dysplasia to carcinoma in situ. Journal of the National Cancer Institute 45(5): 1025-1030, 1970. Barron BA, Richart RM AVAC seeks to create a favorable policy and social environment for accelerated ethical research and eventual
global delivery of AIDS vaccines as part of a comprehensive response to the pandemic.AIDS Vaccine Advocacy Coalition (AVAC) Visit AIDS Vaccine Clearinghouse HPV Watch ACS is a US community-based voluntary health organization dedicated to eliminating cancer as a major health problem. The international mission of ACS
concentrates on capacity building in developing cancer societies and on collaboration with other cancer-related organizations throughout the world in carrying out shared strategic directions.American Cancer Society (ACS) Visit website The GAVI Alliance is a public-private partnership focused on increasing children's access to vaccines in poor countries. Partners include the GAVI Fund, national governments, United
Nations Children's Fund, World Health Organization (WHO), The World Bank, the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the vaccine industry, public health institutions, and nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). : Population-based study of human papillomavirus infection and cervical neoplasia in rural Costa Rica. Journal of the National Cancer Institute 92(6): 464-474, 2000.
Herrero R, Hildesheim A, Bratti C, et al. : HPV DNA testing in cervical cancer screening: results from women in a high-risk province of Costa Rica. JAMA:
Journal of the American Medical Association 283(1): 87-93, 2000. Schiffman M, Herrero R, Hildesheim A, et al. Human papillomavirus testing for triage of women with cytologic evidence of low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions: baseline data from a randomized trial. The Atypical Squamous Cells of Undetermined Significance/Low-Grade Squamous Intraepithelial Leisions Triage Study (ALTS) Group. Journal of the National Cancer Institute 92(5):
397-402, 2000. : Identifying women with cervical neoplasia: using human papillomavirus DNA testing for equivocal Papanicolaou results. JAMA: Journal of the American Medical Association 281(17): 1605-1610, 1999. Manos MM, Kinney WK, Hurley LB, et al. : Barrier and spermicidal
contraceptive
methods and risk of invasive cervical cancer. The human T-cell leukemia virus, a close relative of the virus that causes acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), is associated with a cancer known as Kaposi sarcoma and some types of Non-Hodgkin lymphomas. The search for cause(s) of cancer has been going on for centuries. Early researchers said that cancer was a natural result of aging. As cells degenerated, it was believed that some simply became malignant. Others said cancer was
hereditary, and investigations into genetics began. Then some began to consider chemical links while still others questioned whether viruses or bacteria were at fault. Finally,
the "irritation" theory became popular, and researchers began trying to identify irritants - such as tobacco and coal tar - that would cause cancer in laboratory animals. Ultimately, though, cancer experts were forced to confront the fact that although all these factors might be involved, none of them invariably cancer. Cancer cells develop from normal cells in a complex process called transformation. The first step
in the process is initiation, in which a change in the cell's genetic material primes the cell to become cancerous. The change in the cell's genetic material is brought about by an agent called a carcinogen--such as a chemical, virus, radiation, or sunlight. However, not all cells are equally susceptible to carcinogens. A genetic flaw in the cell
or another agent, called a promoter, may make it more susceptible. Even chronic physical irritation may make cells more susceptible to becoming cancerous. In the next step, promotion, a cell that has been initiated becomes cancerous. Several factors, often the combination of a susceptible cell and a carcinogen, are needed to cause cancer. About 15 to 20 percent of cancers are associated with an infection, for instance viruses with cervical cancer and helicobacter pylori with gastric cancer. 1. Many Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people live in remote areas of Australia and do not have the same opportunities as other Australians to obtain affordable, healthy food. For example, the 2000 Healthy Food Access Basket survey in Queensland confirmed that the cost of basic food was considerably higher in rural and remote communities than in metropolitan and regional centres, and noted
that 'the food supply and delivery system is structured to favour metropolitan areas' (Public Health Services, Queensland Health 2001, p.38).  No evidence of synergy was found (, top):combined exposure to HPV and heavy tobacco and alcohol use wasnot additive (synergy index <1). Moreover, when the analysiswas restricted to patients who were seropositive for the
HPV-16L1 protein, the odds of oropharyngeal cancer were not increasedamong heavy users of tobacco or alcohol (, bottom). Bycontrast, among patients who were seronegative for the HPV-16L1 protein, the odds of oropharyngeal cancer were increasedamong heavy users of tobacco or alcohol, and the odds of oropharyngealcancer were further increased among heavy users of both tobaccoand alcohol (synergy index >1) (, bottom). Similarrelationships were observed in patients with and those withoutthe presence of an oral HPV-16 infection (). We weighted the data to account for probability of selection, population noncoverage, hospital noncoverage, and
nonresponse. The complex survey design was
taken into account by using SUDAAN Release 9.01 (RTI International, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina). We analyzed data by place of residence and for the combined border region. Bivariate and multivariate analyses were conducted for both outcomes (ever and recent Pap test) with nearly identical results. Given these similar findings, we report only results for ever having had a Pap test. Differences in the prevalence of the outcome variables between women who delivered in Matamoros and women who delivered in Cameron County were assessed using a χ test for independence. Statistical significance was set at < .05. Differences could not be
assessed between the individual sides of the US-Mexico border and the combined data because the combined data were a composite of the data from individual sides of the US-Mexico border and observations were not independent.2P Logistic regression was used to quantify the difference in the odds of the outcome variables by respondent characteristics. This often is not an issue for women in their fifties and sixties,
but younger women in their twenties, thirties, and forties may find it hard to adjust to this reality. How Can Cervical and Uterine Cancer Be Prevented? Because cervical cancer is so closely connected with the sexually transmitted virus called HPV, not having sexual intercourse is an effective way to prevent HPV infection. Those who do have sex should always use a condom. Smoking should be avoided, and it is essential that women see their doctors yearly for an examination and a Pap test. (LEE-zhun) is any sore, irregularity, or damaged tissue caused by
illness or a wound.*lesion (kee-mo-THER-a-pee) is the treatment of cancer with powerful drugs that kill cancer cells.*chemotherapy (fa-LO-pee-an tubes) are two long slender tubes in females that connect the ovaries and the uterus. The average time for progression of CIN 3 to invasive cancer has been estimated to be 10 to 15 years, based on the mean age of diagnosis of these 2 conditions.[] There is a small subset of
rapidly progressive cervical cancers which are diagnosed within 3 years of a confirmed negative Pap test. These tumors occur in younger women with higher socioeconomic status as compared to a control cervical cancer group. One third of these cancers are adenocarcinomas of endocervical origin which may not be adequately screened by conventional Pap test methods.[] The Pap test is a screening tool that identifies
women likely to have premalignant disease and at high risk for cervical cancer. The widely used Bethesda System of reporting Pap tests was developed in
1988.[] The cytologic terms, low- and high-grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (LSIL and HSIL), correlate with the histopathologic diagnoses of CIN 1, and CIN 2-3, respectively. CECAP is committed to empowering Filipino women against cervical cancer by increasing their awareness about the disease and providing them access to treatment. The Jhpiego -CECAP Network Alliance of Preventive Services is promoting the
single visit approach (SVA) as an available form of service for women in the community. CECAP is also working toward the provision of a standard center not only for service, but also for research, education and training for the medical staff, support groups and the public. This center will be a model and referral center for the care and prevention of cervical cancer, especially for the underserved.PHILIPPINES: Women who have had a hysterectomy
(removal of the uterus and cervix) that was not done for cancer or pre-cancer of the cervix. Gynecology Evaluation Clinic  - If you think you may have a gynecologic cancer, early treatment provides the best chance for cervical cancer cure. -
A cervical cancer detection method that uses a small fiber optic probe instead of a surgical knife. Cervical Cancer Detection Optical Probe Cervical Cancer Education & Support Patient Story : Jackie Golson  "I took my cancer
treatment seriously, but didn't take myself too seriously. I learned to laugh through it." The 2006 Yellow Umbrellla Tour played in 36 cities. For more information, visit www.yellowumbrellatour.com Tamika, now a member of AFSCME District Council 20, was diagnosed with cervical cancer in May 2001. After surgery and treatment, she, too, decided to tell her story as a way to get the message out. She had no health
insurance and no union when she was
diagnosed and had not been screened for a number of years. It
never occurred to her that she might develop
cervical cancer. "I was a successful television producer,
doing great shows and then cancer came into my life," she says. "I almost didn't make it." In January 2005, Tamika created Tamika and Friends () to raise awareness about cervical cancer, its link to HPV and the importance of regular screening. Also known as a “Pap smear,” this process detects the presence of abnormal cervical cells. It is named after the
pathologist George Papanicolaou, M.D., who developed the technique. Persistent infection An infection that does not go away. Persistent oncogenic HPV infection of the cervix can lead to cervical cancer. Squamous cell carcinoma A type of cancer that begins in non-glandular cells (e.g., skin). Tumor An abnormal mass of tissue that is the result of cells growing and dividing in an uncontrolled manner. Tumors may be
benign (non-cancerous) or malignant (cancerous). Ultrasound An imaging method used to identify internal organs and tissues. High-energy sound waves (ultrasound) are bounced off the internal organs and tissues, and an image is created from their echoes. Vaccination A technique used to produce an immune response that results in protection against a specific disease. GlaxoSmithKline has provided funding and other support for the Partnership to End Cervical Cancer and members of the
Partnership. This site is intended for US residents only. © 1997-2009 GlaxoSmithKline. Eight of these cases were reported in conjunction with injecting drug use, while a further 14 cases were reported in conjunction with exposure to both injecting drug use and male homosexual contact.  Petrol sniffing continues to be a major problem in some Indigenous communities, and particularly affects young people. Petrol sniffing can cause confusion, aggression, lack of coordination, hallucinations,
respiratory problems, and chronic disability including mental impairment (see D'Abbs & MacLean 2000). For more information, see: . AODTS ^top Nutrition The importance of the roles played by diet and nutrition in health is universally acknowledged. Modelling of expected cases and deaths We estimated the numbers of cases and of deathsfrom cancer of the cervix that would have occurred in the absenceof screening
in the study population up to
1996 and
projectedthe estimate for a further 15 years to 2011. To do this we appliedadjusted age specific incidence and death rates for England andWales to the cumulative numbers tested within each birth cohortand each five year period. The adjusted rates assumed that withoutscreening incidence and mortality would have followed the agespecific pattern exhibited by the pre-1930s birth cohorts in
Englandand Wales (in whom there is no evidence of a screening effect)and that the absolute risk would have risen in cohorts of womenborn since 1950. Evidence for this increase in risk in cohortsafter the 1950s comes from national cancer registration and mortalitydata, serological prevalence data relating to high risk exposureto human papilloma virus, and age specific first detectionrates
for severe dyskaryosis.Numbers of cases and deaths if screening had not taken place   [in a new window]  Numbers and rates of women with abnormal cytology and abnormal histology per 100 women tested since 1976 for those screened in 1991-6Table
1.** The prognosis is markedly affected by the extent of disease at the time of diagnosis. Risk Factors and Prevention:  The most important
risk factor for cervical cancer is infection by the human papillomavarius (HPV). However, most women infected with HPV do not develop cervical
cancer. Additional risk factors appear to
influence which infected women are more
likely to develop the disease.    
Certain types of sexual behavior increase a woman's risk of getting HPV; namely, sex at an early age, having many sexual partners, having a partner who has had many sexual partners, and having sex with uncircumcised males. Currently, one vaccine is FDA-approved for use against HPV types 6, 11, 16, and 18. (Approximately 100 HPV types have been identified.) The vaccine protects against roughly 70% of all cancer-causing types of HPV.     