If you
are interested in one of our consultants calling you to discuss anti virus software or virus issues, then please call us on
0777 1714143 or fill out the. contact form     What is a
computer virus? A computer virus is a computer program that places copies of itself in other programs on your system or somehow manipulates other files on your system, with the express purpose of causing mischief or damage. Computer viruses are not something that you should ignore, they can do very serious damage to your computer system, from deleting a few files to killing your machine DEAD. Clean Your Disk Drives If you don't have anti-virus software on your computer, then immediately purchase and install a product.  Now.  Doing any kind of computing on any computer that has contact with the outside world (internet connection, floppy disks, network, ) is like
not practicing safe sex.  And, as far as your computer is
concerned, it could be just as fatal.anything I cannot stress this enough.  There are
many people in the world who do not seem to have enough to do, are angry, experimenting or plain just don't care.  These people create viruses and unleash them to the world. This is very important also - your job is not finished just because you've installed anti-virus software. You
must update the virus definitions (and occasionally the software) as new viruses come out all of the time. If you do not perform these updates, it will give you a false sense of security as you will not be protected from the newer, often more dangerous viruses. Search: Half.com Flynn, a computer whiz who invents video games attempts to regain access to the computer for
users and
is
scanned,
digitized and sucked inside the system to the MCP's lethal game grid. There, a deadly electronic civilization thrives under the tyranny of the MCP and his minions. Disobey, falter on
the game grid, make a mistake and it's "de-res" and disappear. Caught in the grid and threatened with de-resolution, Flynn, a USER, pretends to be a program while he helps TRON, an independent program developed by Flynn's friend, to free the machine from the tyrannical control of the MCP. was the first film to venture inside the three-dimensional world of computer
imagery. Using early-'80s state-of-the-art
computer-generated graphics delivered a visual adventure for bit-heads, hackers
and nonhackers alike. Although the terminology used is a
bit loose, for a mainstream move in 1982 was really ahead of its
time.TronTronTron For us, is particularly interesting.
Like this, confidential and personal data, such as passwords or PINs, can be spied and sent to other computers via the Internet.  Macro viruses are small programs that are written in the macro
language of an application (e.g. WordBasic
under WinWord 6.0) and that can normally only spread within documents of this application. Because of this, they are also called document viruses. In order to be active, they need that the corresponding applications are activated and that one of the infected macros has been executed. Unlike "normal" viruses, macro viruses do consequently not attack executable files but they do attack the documents of the corresponding host-application. Polymorph viruses are the real masters
of disguise. They change their own programming codes - and are therefore very hard to detect. A computer virus is a
program that is capable to attach itself to other programs after
being executed and cause an infection.          Publish date: 20 Jun 2008          Publish date: 20 Jun 2008          Publish date: 12 Jan 2007          Publish date: 18 Dec 2006          Publish date: 12 Nov 2006          Publish date: 07 Oct 2006          Publish date: 11 Sep 2006          Publish date: 11 Aug 2006          Publish date: 07 Jul 2006          Publish date: 07 Jun 2006          Publish date: 11 May 2006          Publish date: 14 Apr 2006          Publish date: 13 Mar 2006          Publish date: 07 Feb 2006          Publish date: 12 Jan
2006  
TechBlog
The provides a comprehensive overview
about "In the Wild" computer viruses. The WildList is a list of computer viruses found in the wild and is brought up to date on a monthly basis. More than 70 qualified volunteers
around the
world report about the latest threats and virus incidents. Tjark Auerbach, the CEO and
founder of Avira GmbH is a member
and active reporter since February 2000. Avira virus lab provides
the latest descriptions for most of the threats listed on the organization's website. Please find the latest monthly additions
as well as the full Wildlist below. If
you have further questions what exactly the WildList is you may have a look at the FAQ section on Organization's website: Avira - In the Wild Viruses List Publish date: 07 Nov
2008         
Publish date: 07 Nov 2008
        