The Nonproliferation Graduate Program (NGP)
is a full-time graduate program for students interested in exploring a career in nuclear nonproliferation. The program is sponsored by the U.S. Department
of Energy (DOE), National Nuclear Security Administration's (NNSA's) Office of Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation, and administered by Pacific Northwest National Laboratory. The mission of the Office of Defense Nuclear
Nonproliferation (DNN) is to detect, prevent, and reverse the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, while mitigating the risks from nuclear operations. In support of this mission, NGP fellows are assigned to a specific DNN program office. Pacific Northwest
National
Laboratory's interactive visual analytics provide new ways to ask questions and get answers, an essential element of new discoveries. Working Solutions With more than 10 years of visual analytics experience in research, engineering and product development, PNNL's
efforts in visual information
analysis spans from
basic research to development of innovative tools and technologies. After assessing a client's unique needs, our interdisciplinary teams create and customize visual metaphors and
information exploration
tools. We have applied our diverse capabilities in software engineering, computer science research, feature extraction, cognitive psychology, statistics and
mathematics, linguistics, and human-computer interaction to solve problems for industry and government clients.
We look forward to further developing and enhancing these tools and exploring new approaches to meet your needs. Discovering the unexpected Our research helps people identify trends, relationships and common themes within large collections of data that may include a large
collection of documents, individual large documents, or information on the World Wide Web. international nonproliferation and export control regimesstrengthening the nuclear weapons infrastructure of the former Soviet Uniondownsizing risks at nuclear facilities worldwide.mitigating Nonproliferation
Graduate Program Objectives NGP objectives are to promote awareness of careers in nonproliferation at the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) and U.S.
national laboratories provide participants with specialized training and valuable practical experience in the field of nonproliferation aid NNSA in achieving its mission (This PDF is for viewing ONLY. For print quality, please order from Duplicating or contact the custodian listed below.) Brochure title: Science and Technology for the Nation Description: Solving America's Toughest Problems Research is our business. With an unwavering focus on our missions, scientists and engineers at the U.S. Department of
Energy's Pacific Northwest National Laboratory deliver science and technology. We conduct basic and applied research that advances the frontiers of
science and technology. In support of this policy, we are committed to: Identifying, evaluating, preventing and managing the hazards associated with our work. Integrating conservation,
pollution prevention, and waste minimization principles into work activities. Complying with all laws, regulations, and contractual obligations and with additional requirements that management implements to achieve operational excellence. Continuously improving our processes, systems,
and capabilities to increase the value of
products delivered to
our staff, customers, and communities. Establishing and implementing performance objectives, indicators and targets; evaluating data to identify performance strengths and areas for improvement; and implementing improvement plans to address areas for improvement.  Nanotechnology
Law  Report (July 2008) NANO Science, Engineering, and Technology Welcome to the technological revolution. There is no doubt that are revolutionary quests that will transform almost everything we do, the way we live and work, and the organizations around us.nanoscience and nanotechnology We are pleased to be participants in this important technical work. For our part, we are on a journey to preeminence in nanomaterials and nanobiology. We are building superior fundamental science capabilities. We realize the intersection of physical,
biological and information sciences is where much of the scientific history of the 21 century will be written. It is where solutions to the most pressing problems will be
found.st Nanoscience and nanotechnology is a major thrust for our laboratory.