Past worries that the Web would bypass broadcasters and take content directly to
listeners have receded, he says. "Frankly, I think we’re, in significant ways, moving past that argument. We don’t have it about podcasting. It hasn’t been an issue that’s come to my attention.” NPR expects to
make additional material available through the API in coming months. Rights issues may hang up music programming and photos acquired from wire services. The initial release does not include programs such as and that are produced by stations for NPR distribution. Though it chooses to remain unrated by Nielsen, the network is now accessible in 50 million homes and, executives say, the company is profitable. Last month, Current for interactive TV. Today, it introduces a new Web site, at . won an Emmy Current.com Current.com is what the network should have done all along. Users can submit their videos to the site, leave comments and vote on the videos they like,
perhaps propelling them onto television (Current pays contributors whose work it airs). But broadcasters farther removed from the hurricane’s path have taken in displaced colleagues and expanded their small news departments to provide special coverage. Mississippi Public Broadcasting did not send either of its two radio reporters to the Gulf Coast. But working from its Jackson headquarters, its radio staff and borrowed TV producers provided
around-the-clock coverage from Aug. Selections from the newspaper about public TV and radio in the United States It is incorrect to say that advertising will destroy our nation's public broadcasting system. This simply is not accurate information. The FCC-supervised Temporary Commission on Alternative Financing (TCAF) test of advertising on public TV in 1982-83 was a success! Those stations that actually put some effort into making
the TCAF project work made it a success!divided views on fundamental questionCommercials: According to the article from the Associated Press, both companies claim they filed for trademarks on variations of the word “Current” before Current TV was founded in April, 2005. Minnesota Public Radio says it applied to register “The Current” a few months before Current TV changed its name from the planned “INdTV” to “Current TV.” First off,
I’m not sure why a public radio station would want to sue a company that is creating a venue for the public to display their projects.
  ABOUT US Founded in 2000 the TRIBUNA Newspaper is a biweekly publication in English, Portuguese and Spanish that
provides
news coverage at local, state, and national level, with an emphasis on community events. TRIBUNA features a number of columns dedicated to public service and education such as a column on consumer rights by Connecticut’s Attorney General Richard Blumenthal, an Immigration Update by New America Media, a national ethnic news agency covering immigration policy, as well as columns on public safety, beauty, culinary, arts and entertainment,
regional
politics, and sports. The issue is the arrogance NPR demonstrated in how it
handled a professional with whom many of its viewers have developed a personal listening relationship over many years and even decades. —Morning Edition Peters D. Willson, listener, Bethesda, Md., in a letter toCurrent In listening to the interview, I was struck by Bob Edwards' more outgoing and assertive personality versus what one normally hears in the morning. … I wonder if Bob were just a little more like he was on your interview, whether he would be leaving. Perhaps Bob should continue to be a regular element of the show. The brief human interest stories at the bottom of the hour — what the staff calls their “returns” — are written by Bob and are among the show’s signatures.Morning EditionThe World Everything should be on the table to take advantage of this wonderful opportunity. A couple of months ago, NPR
partnered with the Kaiser Family Foundation and Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government on a new survey about sex education. will consist entirely of interviews with a variety of newsmakers and personalities, with breaking news handled by BBC hourly newscasts. Executive Producer Mark Schramm, whose 20-year pubradio career included 15 at is recruiting producers with pubradio experience to fill out the staff. He says the new show, because it
won’t be “wedded to the clock,” will be able to let interviews run as long as desired. [] PDF of proposal. John Podesta, head of the
president-elect’s transition team, also runs the Center for American Progress Action Fund, which jointly prepared the book-size agenda. The other partner behind the proposal is the New Democracy Project, headed by New York
politico and longtime public-interest activist Mark Green. Obama has named no fewer than 15 of the book’s authors to his transition team. They signed a community benefits agreement in Minneapolis - in exchange for a monopoly,
the provider had to put some
dollars towards media access and media literacy projects. One area where the FCC could step in is by regulating ISP's for these city wifi projects to make public media websites the first page you're directed to after you log on, or in my case in Minnesota, at least a list of sites, because we have so much public
media! Discussing The Brand of a Browser Sunday, January 13th, 2008 I attended a fantastic presentation by hosted by the on Friday night and he explained that Brand is a fetish… it is when people don’t just identify with something but embrace it. This concept fascinates me especially when it falls in the realm of an a-typical product. People get totally juiced up and excited over so many things; there are mini-cooper meet-up groups and people who are obsessed with Harry Potter, but I am fascinated when a group of enthusiasts rally around something meant to be functional.. NPBA also offers an online index of and where they're located. other collections of public broadcasting materials other repositories Among them are the Mass Communications History Collection at thein Madison, which has the papers of NAEB, NET, the
Carnegie Commissions and Newton Minow, among others. Wisconsin Historical Society CURRENT The is and selections are .biweekly newspaper available by mail published online NAEB was to last only two years, however, and a publishing committee raised funds to resume publication at Educational Broadcasting Corp. See our of the newspaper's history and the 20th anniversary . timeline message from the editor Web page revised Nov. 25, 2008 : the newspaper about public TV and radio in the United States Current LLC, Takoma Park, Md. 301-270-7240 E-mail: Current Is the whole newspaper on this website? No. Since 1995 we have posted many of our articles on this site, but we can't put all of the newspaper's content on the Web. Selections from the newspaper about public TV and radio in the United States Elsewhere On the Web Archives
Dec 2, 2008 NPR newsmags seen as engines for future growth in pubradio news audience The latest analysis from public radio's project identifies a "short list" of market factors that drive performance of individual NPR News stations--namely education levels, competition within each market for NPR News listeners and the presence of key psychographic segments. The [PDF], published online last week by Station Resource Group and Walrus Research, concludes that strategies to grow the public radio news audience start with the two most-listened to programs, NPR's and . — Jim King, director of radio, X-Star Radio Network, Cincinnati My first reaction upon reading of Edwards’ replacement on the Web is that I must have accidentally clicked on the satirical newspaper . Come on, NPR, you can’t be serious. Edwards IS . When he’s
on vacation, we count the days until his return. Why mess with success? What exactly is the point of this unnecessary change? Change for change’s sake? 80 |Mosaic MasterWhen a California earthquake shook Rahnee Gladwin, she picked up the pieces and headed to Texas, finding inspiration in the SA landscape and local tile-art scene.        Features 54Inspired to Perspire Attention couch potatoes: It’s time to dig out from those cushions and get moving. A new year
brings new opportunities for reinvention, rehabilitation and remorse for the pounds we packed on in 2008. Hyatt wouldn't disclose how many of
these deals they've done or what
kind of revenue the company has, but he did say that Sony, HP and Loreal were all advertisers. The audience today saw a pretty compelling example in a Prius commercial reportedly made by some guy who owns a Prius and likes it a lot. Hyatt said that surveys show viewers prefer user generated advertising 9 to 1 over Madison Avenue's creations. And we're not just any 3 million people - we're the most influential people in America, the people who put Democrats in charge of Congress by beating Karl Rove, George Bush and the vast White House/Republican political machine. The key to success is terrific energetic TV personalities like ,, , and . Monday,
October 29th, 2007 Jay Rosen has been saying it for a while, now you can hear it again in a New York Times article quoting Robin Sloan, an online
product strategist for Al Gore’s Current.Tv: If you
build it, they will not necessarily come. We have, a number of times, assumed that if we built the Web architecture for citizen […] Nokia, Reuters
Try Mobile Journalism Experiment Friday, October 26th, 2007 The university found its pubcasting unit lost more than $50,000 in underwriting revenues to in-kind trades involving massages, airline tickets, a pool
table and a lawn sprinkler system, among other perks, that did not benefit the station. At the time, Coleman told that he had done nothing wrong and was “confident that I’ll be vindicated through this process.” Current He declined to comment last week about why he opted to take a plea. “So we end up doing churnalism. Censorship by omission, as talked about this morning 04:28 PM John Pilger “Commercialism invading the structures of news organisations. They’ve stripped out editorial staff and increase outputs. 04:28 PM Nick is proposing that we junk the whole debate now. 04:27 PM June 13, 2008 from “Peter’s not saying IJ is dross, he’s saying there’s not enough of it.