Five years after the early Able space probe missions ended, used the Pioneer name for a new series of missions, initially aimed at the inner solar system, before the bold flyby missions to and . While successful, the missions returned much poorer images than the five years later. In 1978, the end of the program saw a return to the inner solar system, with the and , this time using orbital insertion rather than flyby missions. Lunar Prospector Lunar Prospector, the first NASA mission to the Moon in almost 30 years, was launched Jan 6th, 1998. Within a month it will begin returning answers to long-standing questions about the Moon, its
resources, its structure and its origins. (, Lunar Prospector home page); from NSSDC Welcome to the Moon more The revealing Voyager's firsts -- among them the discovery of volcanoes on Jupiter's moon Io and a visit to Neptune -- kept earthlings enthralled for years. One of Voyager's most famous pictures is a view of Earth, called the , taken in 1991 from more than 4 billion miles away. photographs Pale Blue Dot "Scientifically, it didn't teach us a single thing," says Jurrie Van der Woude, a
longtime image picker and
processor at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory, of the photo. "But historically, it's priceless." In an last year, Van der Woude recalled how slowly photographs came back from the Voyagers, scrolling across a computer screen line by agonizing line. Impatient and needing to make decisions late at night so the world could see a photo the next day, he'd often choose
a picture after seeing only 30 percent of it. By focusing intent, one can go from one dimension to another. Through studying the Sun and the Moon and learning how to predict where they will rise and set at major time-points of the year, we are exposed to new ideas about how to move into different dimensions and what it may be like there. We can meet some doorways. Sacred space has doors. Astronomy opens them for us. Betty Sincerbeaux at Calendar II Central Vermont, USA Photo Byron Dix Winter Solstice Sunrise Calendar II, Central Vermont, USA Again, notice the notch on the horizon Photo Byron Dix The ancients used this knowledge to
better calculate and intuit when the earth energies would be at their peak. (Thor-Able 3, Pioneer II) - Lunar orbiter, reentry (third stage failure) November 8, 1958 Pioneer 2 (Atlas-Able 4A, Pioneer W), probe lost September 1959 Pioneer P-1 (Atlas-Able 4, Atlas-Able 4B, Pioneer X) - Lunar probe, lost in launcher failure December 1959 Pioneer P-3 (Pioneer P-2, Thor-Able 4, Pioneer V) - interplanetary space between Earth and , launched March 11, 1960 Pioneer 5 Venus [2] (Atlas-Able 5A, Pioneer Y) - Lunar probe, failed to achieve lunar orbit September 1960 Pioneer P-30 (Atlas-Able 5B, Pioneer Z) - Lunar probe, lost in upper stage failure December 1960 Pioneer P-31 [] edit Juno II lunar probes (1958-1959) - Lunar flyby, missed Moon due to launcher failure December 1958 Pioneer 3 Voyager 2 was one of a pair of spacecrafts (the other was Voyager 1) launched
to explore the planets of the outer solar system and the interplanetary environment. Its objectives at each planet were to: investigate dynamics, structure, and composition of the planet's atmosphere;   characterize the morphology, geology, and physical state of the satellites of the planet; provide information on the mass, size, and shape of the planet, its satellites, and any rings; and, determine the magnetic field of the planet. The mission was estimated to cost several hundred millions of dollars. Voyager 2 is
speeding away from the
Sun at a velocity of about 3.13 AU/year (1AU (Astronomical unit 150 millions of kilometers). These forms enable you to generate a diagram showing the appearance of a planetary system at a specified time. Bodies and rings are rendered with terminators and shadows as appropriate. The viewpoint can be Earth's center, a particular Earth-based observatory, or a spacecraft. Planet Viewers These forms enable you to generate a diagram showing the apparent east-west motion of one or moons relative to the disk of a planet, within a specified time period. Moon Trackers Click for , , , , or . Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Mars These forms enable
you to generate a table listing useful information about the viewing geometry for a planet and/or any of its moons as a function of time. You are free to specify which of a variety of useful quantities to tabulate (e.g. The Nacene felt responsible for the situation and left two chosen 'Caretakers' to provide the Ocampa with
what they needed to survive without water. The Caretaker's mate, Suspiria, didn't agree with her mate on how to take care of the Ocampan species, and left together with a group of around 2000 Ocampans, which she helped to grow stronger telepathic abilities. Voyager encountered this other Caretaker in 2372. The Caretaker was responsible for pulling Voyager into the Delta Quadrant. Both launches took place at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station in Florida. Eighteen months after launch, Voyager 1 reached Jupiter, 650 million kilometers (400 million miles) away. The spacecraft made its closest
approach on March 5,
1979, while Voyager 2 followed on July 9 of the same year. Images streaming back from the pair of spacecraft began to show the complicated, swirling turbulence of Jupiter's atmosphere in exquisite detail. three times the size of was raging in Jupiter's upper atmosphere, surrounded by rippling currents that rotated around it. Voyager 1 made a startling discovery; it found nine active volcanoes erupting on , the innermost of Jupiter's four major moons. Four months later, Voyager 2 found that eight of the nine volcanoes were still erupting. Now here's the encouraging news: the probes could arrive at a preliminary boundary called the
termination shock in 2005, Stone predicts. The termination shock, nearly 4 billion miles inside the heliopause, is where the solar wind first starts to slow down and reverse due to its first encounters with pressure from interstellar space. With Voyager 1 now the further along at 82 AU, it will win the race between the twin spacecraft. Stone's reasoning was published in this week's issue of the journalScience. What is the interstellar medium? Arriving at the termination shock is more than a rat race. It will allow scientists to estimate the size of the heliosphere, and Stone says this measure will help answer truly fundamental
questions. also spawned the television series , and .Star Trek ratings syndication Assignment: Earth spinoff 1975 Star Trek: The Motion Picture Star Trek: The Next Generation 1980s Star Trek: The Next Generation Star Trek Star Trek: Deep Space Nine Star Trek: Voyager Star Trek: Enterprise Roddenberry only produced the first Star Trek film, . Due to cost overruns and a problematic relation with the Paramount management, Roddenberry was ousted and replaced by . He continued as
executive consultant on the next four films - , , and . She spends most of her time in unimatrix 1 with her head and spinal column in her alcove. She seems to have a mostly synthetic body filled with cybernetic implants below her head and shoulders.   Bussard Collectors Bussard collectors are located at the front of the nacelles and carry the name of the 20th century Terran scientist who came up with the basic principles behind these collectors. They are used to collect particles, such as hydrogen atoms, that can be used as fuel.
Enjoying some of the comforts
of home is important to our students. Missouri S&T’s are designed to provide many of these same conveniences. Rooms include
comfortable furniture,
local phone access and an Ethernet connection. Students have access to TV, study lounges, laundry facilities, a copy machine, an ice machine, vending machines and a convenience store. Fitness centers and Computer Learning Centers are available in many buildings. All Missouri S&T students are allowed to have cars on campus. The is a short walk from all on-campus housing if you feel the need for a pick-up game of basketball, racquetball or the indoor jogging track. residence halls Student
Recreation Center Campus offers a wide-variety of of where and what to eat. by Dave Nagel recently announced an update to its , which is aimed at K-6 teachers. The newly expanded program includes four additional courses, all focused on reading instruction. Voyager Expanded Learning VoyagerU Professional Development Program The new courses combine online
learning, face
to face collaboration with peers, and classroom practice, according to Voyager, and are supplemented with digital videos, quizzes, and other online resources. The four new courses include Small Group Intervention, Vocabulary, Fluency, and Content Integration. VoyagerU has been used by some 50,000 educators and instructional coaches, according to the company. Further information can be found here. Get daily K-12 technology news via RSS .David Nagel is the executive editor for
1105 Media's online education technology publications, includingAbout the author: THE Journal and Campus Technology .He can be reached at dnagel@1105media.com Since coronal mass ejections can be detected by the light that they emit before the high-energy particles reach the spacecraft, this gives astronauts time to take protective measures. For example, they could take cover in a "storm shelter" at the center of the ship, surrounded by vats of water that shield the worst of the solar wind particles.
The message is carried by a phonograph record - -a 12-inch gold-plated copper disk containing sounds and images selected to portray the diversity of life and culture on Earth. The contents of the record were selected for NASA by a committee chaired by Carl Sagan of Cornell University. Dr. Sagan and his associates assembled 115
images and a variety of natural
sounds. To this
they added musical selections from different cultures and eras, and spoken greetings from Earth-people in fifty-five languages. —
Expanded News and Media section — Voyager Connection electronic magazine — Google-based search engine “We are thrilled with the new look and updated features and benefits to http://www.voyagerlearning.com ” says Ron Klausner, president of Voyager Expanded Learning. “Websites are a major tool used by educators when deciding on the best education solutions and it is important that we continue to provide the most up-to-date information on our programs and make ours as easy to use as possible.” To visit the new site, go to: http://www.voyagerlearning.com . At the age of twelve she walked home in a
thunderstorm over seven kilometres because she lost a tennis match. Her mother worked as a mathematician and her father was a Starfleet Admiral and they both influenced Janeway when choosing an occupation. Because of her special interest in science and mathemathics she joined Starfleet Academy and graduated as a science officer. Early postings include serving as the science officer on the Al-Batani under Admiral Owen Paris, who later recommended Janeway for a command position, and as commander on USS Billings. She was given the command of in 2371 and was presumed lost after disapperaing during
a mission to the Badlands in 2371. U.S.S Voyager Janeway is an intelligent, thoughtful, dedicated and tough captain who is not afraid to take chances and she's also well known for her diplomacy skills. What if these are creatures who communicate via molecular manipulation, or chemical signatures? What if they live in vacuum, and therefore cannot "hear" at all? So yeah, the golden record is species-centric. It's also naively specific to one culture, for who can think of a golden record full of Western music as anything but the work of hippie liberal white dudes? Still, I'd rather be represented by its naive utopianism than by most of the signals shooting off this planet. No doubt the golden record will bemuse any alien life that
actually bothers to examine the goo on a piece of space junk. But a bemused alien may in fact be the one who comes closest to guessing the true meaning of the golden record, and perhaps the true meaning of human life itself. Senior Science WriterBy Robert Roy Britt posted: 07:00 am ET 20 August 2002 3 You think your VCR is complicated ... Each Voyager spacecraft has 65,000 parts. Well, that's not exactly true. Many of these parts
have subparts. One computer memory alone contains more than a million pieces. A Voyager has the electronic circuit complexity of some 2,000 color TV sets, NASA says. To be successful in math, students should be able to recall basic math facts quickly and accurately. Fact practice is introduced in first grade and continues each
year after that. Second grade students are expected to know addition and subtraction facts, zero to ten. Third grade students should know multiplication and division facts through tens. There is no single, best way to learn math facts, except for practice. Flashcards work well. Some students learn by writing things down. The spacecraft would also provide the capsule with services such as power, timing and sequencing, telemetry, and command during the transit portion of the missions and serve as a
communications relay. The capsule was designed for entry into the Martian atmosphere, descent to the surface, impact survival, and surface lifetimes of as much as six months and contained the power, guidance, control communications, and data handling systems necessary to complete its mission. The space vehicles were expected to be launched by vehicles of the Saturn class. Prime Contractor was the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California Institute of Technology. Two identical probes were launched in to study the more distant in the . Their primary missions completed, the two probes are currently drifting
out of the known Solar System. Both probes are expected to continue transmitting
data until the year 2020. space NASA 1977 planets Solar System Fast Facts Voyager 1 launched: , September 5 1977 Mass during launch: 2,100 kilograms Mass after launch: 825 kilograms Both carried into by expendable rocket systems space Completed primary missions on , August 25 1989 Currently heading out of the Solar System I don't really have a "favorite" math, I consider math to be a tool and use whatever math is needed. Advanced Composition Explorer (ACE) The best place to start would be on . his own home page (December 2000)Beth Barbier Go For It! Ever since I was a child I have wanted to be a
scientist. I am now in my 20s. I have a burning desire to go to college and study physics. People tell me that I am crazy and too old to start studying a science like physics. For over ten years, educators have secured millions of dollars in funding by partnering with Voyager. Voyager's products fit the criteria of numerous state and federal funding sources, and our specialists know the right approaches to take and the language to include to help make your funding application process efficient and successful. Our team of funding specialists help Voyager customers like you with: Grant writing
Funding source research Proposal review to fill out a simple pre-application form to help us determine your funding possibilities. Or call us at 888-399-1995 ext. 9380 to talk with a funding specialist. We continue the interview below talking to Gabriel about his love for Star Trek, comedy and all things Geek! Hmm. This is a hard one. The facts seem a little boring and I can't think of a clever opening line. Let's come back to it.Who is Gabriel Diani? More... Captain's Log -
An Interview with Tim Renshaw... I was
privileged to have been
able to watch
most of the
original series episodes the
first time they aired on NBC. Because
they were aired
on Channel 6 in Indianapolis that also meant I could “listen” to the episodes I could not watch on a little portable FM radio I had.How long have you been a Star Trek fan? Clarke (a famous science fiction author) is credited with
being the first
one to figure out this orbit. (June 2001)Dr. Eric Christian What
Keeps the Shuttle Up? What keeps a shuttle in orbit around the Earth? The detailed answer to your question is beyond our area of expertise, but you might want to check out on what keeps objects in orbit. this site at NASA GRC (March 2000)Beth Barbier Earth's gravity must still have a large magnitude at the altitude of shuttle
flights. How do they stay up there, and why are they weightless? One of the most popular film and television franchises of all time,
"Star Trek has encompassed 726 total episodes for television in six different series, beginning with the original 1966-1969 series created by Gene Roddenberry. The 10 "Star Trek films have grossed in excess of $1 billion at the worldwide box office. The original characters have been named among the 50 greatest TV characters of all time and the Enterprise has lent its name to two proposed spacecrafts. "If there's something I'm dying to see, it's the brilliance and optimism of Roddenberry's world brought back to the big screen, said Abrams. "Alex and Bob wrote an amazing script that embraces and respects Trek canon, but charts its own course. Our goal is to make a picture for everyone -- life-long fans and the uninitiated. After the boom telescoped and rotated out of the can to an extension of nearly 13 meters (43 feet), the orientations of the
magnetometer sensors were controlled to an accuracy better than two degrees. Navigation   Each Voyager used the enormous gravity field of Jupiter to be hurled on to Saturn, experiencing a Sun-relative speed increase of roughly 35,700 mph. As total energy within the solar system must be conserved, Jupiter was initially slowed in its solar orbit---but by only one foot per trillion years. Additional gravity-assist swing-bys of Saturn and Uranus were necessary for Voyager 2 to complete its Grand Tour flight to Neptune, reducing the trip time by nearly twenty years when compared to the unassisted Earth-to-Neptune route. Since 1996 we've been bringing you the best of STAR TREK, STAR TREK: THE NEXT. Areakt Pictures, in association with
Hidden Frontier Productions is proud to announce the next chapter in the Star Trek universe. Star Trek: Odyssey. Terms of use: You're welcome to save these pictures to your hard drive.. If you post any of these pictures to a blog or forum, please include a link to. Paramount, relatively gun-shy on the subject of re-releasing a film so quickly to the theaters,
instead issued a video version with 12 minutes of previously unseen footage. In 2001, director , who had tried for many years to distance himself from , decided to embrace the film once more. Working with the studio, new special effects shots were created in line with what had been originally intended by the renowned director
and the film was released on DVD. The film
also introduced a new
look for the Klingons, which would carry over to the other series including , , and even to the 'prequel' series which is set 150 years before Kirk. I've always been a star trek fan. I've watched them all Star Trek TOS, TNG, DS9, Enterprise. But non of them beat Star Trek Voyager. I hope The'll make a new star trek movie for Voyager some day. Prowd to be a member of: Copyright © 1997 - 2008 . All Rights Reserved. Linda's Voyager Page last updated:  Spacecraft electrical power is supplied by Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generators (RTGs) that provided approximately 470 of 30 power at launch. 238
decays with a half-life of approximately 85 years, so RTGs using it lose a factor of
<math>1 - \sqrt[85]{0.5}</math> or ca. 0.81% of the power per year. 23 years after launch, such an RTG would produce only 470 W × 0.9919 ~= 390 W — or roughly 83% — of the initial power. However, the bi-metallic used to convert
thermal energy into electrical
energy degrade as well;
at the beginning of 2001, the power generated by Voyager 1 had dropped to 315 W and to 319 W for Voyager 2, so the thermocouples work at about 80%. Both of these power levels represent better performance than the pre-launch predictions, which included a conservative degradation model for the thermocouples. Select print on your computer. Look at the name taped to the computer monitor and proceed to the closest print station. Find your computer name on the screen at the print station and lightly tap it. If your computer name is toward the end of the alphabet (e.g., Twain or Wilde) you may need to select the Next button at the bottom of the screen to find it. Class: . : Mars. : USA. Program: . : , . Program: . Voyager - Saturn V -
Planetary TypeNation The original Voyager was an instrumented space
vehicle for use in
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration program in conducting experiments on the surface of, and in orbit about, the planet Mars in 1973 and at subsequent opportunities in order to obtain information on the existence and nature of extraterrestrial life, the atmospheric, surface and body characteristics of the planet, and the planetary environment. Two first Voyager space vehicles were expected to be launched during the 1973 Mars opportunity. Through a blended architecture of online learning, group discussion, and classroom
practice, each course supports authentic skill development: Latest research pertaining to effective reading instruction Group
interaction-teachers discuss, plan, and
reflect with peers On-line coursework with videos, quizzes, and downloadable classroom materials Opportunities to apply new strategies in the classroom The Small-Group Intervention course covers the critical task of identifying and targeting individual student needs within the classroom. Teachers develop skills in differentiating instruction to ensure all students master the critical skills necessary to be grade-level readers:Small-Group Intervention The record contains sounds and images selected to
portray the
diversity of life and culture on Earth, all selected for NASA by a committee chaired by Carl Sagan. There are 115 images and a variety of natural sounds on the record, along with music from different cultures and eras (alas, no Eminem, no Britney) and spoken greetings in 55 languages. Each record is encased in an aluminum jacket and comes with its own cartridge and a needle. Instructions, in symbols, attempt to explain the origin of the spacecraft and indicate how the record is to be played. The images are encoded in
analog form. To hear the audio parts as intended, ET will need to play the record at 16-2/3 revolutions per second. It came within 570,000 km (350,000 miles) of the planet's cloud tops. It discovered a few , as well as volcanic activity on the moon . Jupiter rings around Jupiter Io The was revealed as a complex storm moving in a counterclockwise direction. An array of other smaller storms and eddies were found throughout the banded clouds. Great Red Spot Discovery of active volcanism on the
satellite was easily the greatest unexpected discovery at Jupiter. It was the first time active volcanoes had been seen on another body in the solar system. Together, the Voyagers observed the eruption of nine volcanoes on Io, and there is evidence that other eruptions occurred between the Voyager encounters. Io displayed a large number of intersecting linear features in the low-resolution photos from Voyager 1. Jokipii, a Regents' professor at the University of Arizona's departments of planetary sciences and astronomy. But both Stone and Jokipii, believe getting outside the heliosphere will give science new, worthwhile data on the interstellar media untainted by the Sun's influence. "This will be an opportunity to study 'in
situ' the process by which nature accelerates particles to very high velocities," Stone said. Peak opportunity The heliosphere is a comet-shaped (the entire disk is distended by the cosmic wind) bubble of charged particles carved out of interstellar space by the solar wind. The extent to which this wind blows fluctuates in an 11-year solar cycle. Flashcards work well for many students.  Each word should be written neatly on an index card.  Write large enough so the reader can touch each letter as they are saying the sounds.  In the lower right corner of each card, write the list number that the
word is from.  Keep the cards
for review.MAKE FLASHCARDS  Although learning to read sight words a spelling activity, some people memorize things by
repeatedly writing them down.WRITE THE WORDS THAT ARE TRICKYIS NOT With a colored marker or crayon, outline the shape of the word.  Pay close attention to blends, such as …  Blends should be underlined or boxed together so the
reader has a visual cue to remember to say the sounds as one, not choppy as two.USE COLORSth, wh, sh, tr Usually, when two
vowels are
together the first one does the talking, the last one does the walking. Like star trek wallappers, screensavers, st fonts, pictures and star trek images, funny things like jokes, funny pictures and other humor and fun. But also a full episode guide, blueprints of the starship voyager, datalogs, news and a lot more. You can get everything here for free. So be sure to check out all the Star trek stuff around. Lately I've also been working on Star trek T-shirt designs. Since its planetary mission is over, is now described as working on an Interspace Mission, which is using to find out what the is like beyond the .Voyager 2 NASA solar
system heliosphere As of , , Voyager 2 is
at a distance of 75.4 and is escaping the at
a speed of about 3.3
AU per year (ca. 15.6 km/s). Although it has not yet escaped the solar system, it is believed to be on the verge of doing so. January 11 2005 AU solar system is expected to keep on transmitting into the .Voyager 2 2030s [] edit Current Voyager 2 data processing and operations There were 41.1 hours of scheduled support for Voyager 2 of which 22.5 hours were large aperture coverage. Voyager 1 is the most distant functioning space probe to receive commands and transmit information to Earth.Voyager [4] Year End of specific capabilities as a result of the available electrical power limitations 2007 Termination of plasma subsystem (PLS) 2008 Power off Planetary Radio Astronomy Experiment (PRA) 2010 Terminate scan platform and
Ultraviolet spectrometer (UVS) observations 2015 Termination of Data Tape Recorder (DTR) operations (limited by ability to capture 1.4 kbit/s data using a 70 m/34 m antenna array. This is the minimum rate at which the DTS can read-out data.) 2016 approx STAR TREK (2009) Movie,also known as Star Trek XI, Star Trek 11, synopsis, trailer, pictures, cast, director, release date, official site, box office,. IESB is the source for Movie
Reviews, Movie Previews, Movie Trailers, Celebrity Interviews, Red Carpet Interviews, Celebrity Photos, Film Clips, Set Star Trek': Meet the Cast. Celebs' New Year's Resolutions · Year-End Movie Poll · Coolest Gift Guide Ever · Celebs' Proudest Achievements of '07. Plot information, reviews, and pictures for all Star Trek movies. The net's largest movie trailers database. --INFO AND UPDATES-- 20 September 2008 I have updated the Species Quiz. 22 July 2008 I have made some
changes to the layout of the pages in the bios section as well as in the downloads
section. It should be a bit easier to navigate now. 15 May 2008 I have updated the Janeway Quiz and the B'Elanna Quiz. 29 February 2008 I have added a few more avatars to the avatar section. 19 January 2008 The site awards application is up again. All Star Trek Sites can apply for the STVI Site of the Month. 18 January 2008 The poll is now functional. 15 January 2008 The trek greeting cards are now functional. The two-part Borg episode gives us the first look at Seven of Nine's parents and how she was assimilated. Lured back to the collective by the Borg Queen, Voyager decides to rescue Seven using technology that Seven's parent developed. Dark Frontier The packaging for these DVDs are very simple and well designed. The discs
are housed in a plastic
book-like case. The case is housed in a clear plastic slipcase divided in two
halves. Its very
attractive but my casings have already cracked and broke in some areas.The DVD More than 50,000 teachers and coaches have already experienced the award-winning program. All expressed high levels of satisfaction and more than 95 percent of teachers believe the courses enhanced their teaching effectiveness.       -Theresa Largenton, Massachusetts teacher"The course provided new information that will be helpful in my teaching. It also helped to validate what I am already doing."       -Susan Mullan-Karvonen, Minnesota teacher"The course helped me to understand the research behind reading instruction." near the Cardassian border which is considered very dangerous for space travel because of the areas many Plasma storms. Sensors and
warp drive might not work properly in
this part of space. Badlands
Naturally occurring
area in the Alpha Quadrant   .
Barge of the Dead,
The The vessel transporting dishonored klingons to Grethor   Bat'leth A two metre long Klingon weapon with two handholds on the
outside edge. The first bat'leth was,
according to Klingon legend, created by Kahless when dropping a strand of his hair
in a vulcano and later
into the lake Lursor. He then formed it into a bathleth which he used to kill Molor, a Klingon tyrant. A typical bat'leth is 116 centimeters long and is composed of baakonite metal. The bat'leth is carried along the inside of the arm. The Mars Pathfinder (formerly known as the Mars Environmental Survey, or MESUR, Pathfinder)
is the second of NASA's low-cost planetary Discovery missions. The mission consists of a stationary lander and a surface rover known as Sojourner. The mission has the primary objective of demonstrating the feasibility of low-cost landings on and exploration of the Martian surface. This objective will be met by tests of communications between the rover and lander, and the lander and Earth, and tests of the imaging devices and sensors. The scientific objectives include atmospheric entry science, long-range and close-up surface imaging,
with the general objective being to
characterize the Martian environment for
further exploration. Preliminary studies
were underway, it was reported,
but final planning would have to await decisions and funding for development of the
Saturn I launch vehicle (at that time planned to have a Centaur-derived third stage,
the S-V). This version of Voyager would be
limited to 1090 kg, including a small landing capsule of 100 to 150 kg. JPL planners
began to study Voyager-class missions in 1961, followed by a May 1962 study of advanced missions and spacecraft. I will probably not be hosting a banner exchange any longer. I'm hoping to have everything functional within the coming week. 24 December 2007 Merry christmas and a happy new year! 16 December 2007 The poll questions are now updated. 18 November 2007 I have updated 2 quizzes. Take the challenge! :) 6
November 2007 My webhosting provider had
a hardware failure that took them almost 24 hours to fix. Some things still doesn't work, which is why some images and services are missing right now. Hopefully everything will be fixed soon. 20 October 2007 I have added 2 avatars and a new thanksgiving themed greeting card to the site. Each gives its actor something to do. Each is terrifically done. That uses up our allotment of the word "each" for the year so let's lay it out for y'all . . .Kabluey Salman (Prendergast) is a 32 year old loser
who, banned
from the state of
Nevada, finds himself on the doorstep of his sister in law Leslie's (Lisa Kudrow) house out in the great nowhere of the middle of our country. back to top Sight words are words that a reader can recognize and read without sounding out each individual letter.  Many sight words are hard to sound out phonetically and must be memorized.  I suggest printing a copy of the and practicing. It is expected that second grade students can read most of the 1,200 words on the list without hesitation. Spelling the sight words correctly would be an added bonus since these words are used frequently in students' writing. sight word list Here are a few suggestions for how to practice learning sight words. 