Anyone can happily go
vegetarian at these top
plant-centric spots, featuring food that is fresh and sophisticated. Keywords: Chefs have
perfected the art of breakfast. Bring the trend
home with three of our favorite
breakfasts from top spots across the country.
Keywords: Today's sophisticated, ingredient-driven
seafood restaurants—from a Maine-style lobster shack to a high-end
shrine to seafood—have us hooked. Keywords: America's
Foodiest Small Town Imagine a place where foodies not only have a favorite chef, but also a favorite farmer; a place where the distance between the organic
farm and the award-winning restaurant is mere miles; a place
where a sustainable
future is foreseeable. It's all a reality in
Durham-Chapel Hill. Keywords: This lovely salad from Panciuto restaurant in Hillsborough, N.C., features figs two ways. Keywords: This spread makes one heck of a sandwich. Parker and Otis, a specialty foods store in Durham, N.C., uses this pimiento dip in a Southern-style grilled cheese. Keywords: These frozen treats from LocoPops, in
Durham, N.C., capture a great autumnal flavor in a traditional summertime indulgence.
Get to Calvander at the intersection of Old 86 / Homestead Road / Hillsborough Rd / Dairyland Road. Go west on
Dairyland Road 6.8 miles. Mapleview
Farm Ice Cream store on right at intersection of Dairyland & Rocky
Ridge Rd. At end of Dairyland Road, turn right onto Orange Grove
Rd and go 0.2 miles. Turn left onto Buckhorn Road
opposite the fire station. Go 2.9 miles on Buckhorn Road. On left look for mailbox 4122. Opposite mailbox, turn right into gravel drive. Bear left at first fork. Bear right at second fork.Scenic Route From Carrboro & Chapel Hill
Once on our farm road, please drive slowly. Built in 1769
and enlarged in 1880, the house is furnished with
antiques and has a small garden for guests to enjoy. Kids up
to 6 are free. Free local calls. The Old Place Directions phone (919) 563-1733 3 rooms. Pre-Civil War cabin (c. 1780-1801) listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Includes breakfast. Kitchen facilities available. Free local calls. Perfect place for a honeymoon, anniversary or getaway. Also has hiking trail. Italian food goes southern in this juicy pork roast from Piedmont restaurant in Durham, N.C. Keywords: This slightly salty, just-a-little-spicy pie from Scratch bakery in Durham, N.C., shows North Carolina peanuts off to their best advantage. Keywords: In
North Carolina, the coleslaw is tangy and not too sweet, with no mayonnaise in
sight. Keywords: Subscription Questions s Take 5 newsletterBon Appétit' Sign up for s Take 5 newsletter and you'll receive our weekly
recommendations for the most
important things to cook, buy, read, watch, and do.Bon Appétit' FAST EASY FRESH From West via Interstate 40 east / 85 north Take exit 157 - Buckhorn Road. Turn right at top of exit ramp going south
on Buckhorn Road. Go 4.5 miles. Look for black mailbox 4122 on right. Opposite
mailbox turn left into gravel
drive.
Bear left at first fork. Bear right at second fork. Take exit
160 - Efland. Turn left at bottom of exit
ramp going south on Mt Willing Road. Go 3.8
miles. At stop sign, turn left onto Buckhorn Road. Go 1.7 miles. (H) Learn the science behind eggs  from proper hard boiling to sauces and souffl s. Curried Deviled Eggs; Spinach Souffl ; Hollandaise Sauce; Pasta Carbonara;
Tex-Mex Frittata; Chocolate-Bread
Pudding.ALL ABOUT EGGS: Saturday, February 21, 2009 at 9am$60 (P) Lamb Kebabs; Rice Pilaf; Spanikopita (Spinach and Feta in Phyllo); Hummus with Pita. (P) Sweet and Sour Porcupine Meatballs; Cuban Sandwich; Chili Verde; Masa Dumplings.GREEK MENU: Sunday, February 22, 2009 at 2pm$25 PORK: Tuesday, February 24, 2009 at 6:30pm$25 (P) Pizza Dough from scratch; Marinara Sauce; Assorted Toppings; Garlic Breadsticks.PIZZA PARTY: Thursday, February 26, 2009 at 6:30pm$25 (H) A mostly vegan set of recipes that whether you are a vegetarian or occasional flexitarian! Potato-Rosemary
Rolls; Artichoke Gratin; Classic Mac
n Cheese*; Gazpacho; Baba Ghanouj; Rice Biryani. The Barnhouse at Genesis Farm Directions phone (919) 968-4759 The Barnhouse is a private cottage nestled among
a twenty-acre working farm. Guests have the opportunity to help the farmer
with the
daily chores—gather eggs, feed the barnyard animals, work the gardens. This cozy, comfortable
one-bedroom guesthouse sleeps five, with a large
living/dining room, a bath with separate shower and
a fully-equipped kitchen. Spectacular sunsets
from the deck which overlooks the gardens and pastures. Housemade red curry and tofu stew with local pumpkin, spinach, red onions,           fresh curry leaves and steamed jasmine rice Crispy slow-cooked duck soup with fresh egg noodles, oyster mushrooms, shanghai bok choy           and scallions Steamed wild striped bass with seared ginger, scallions, fermented black beans,           green chiles, steamed baby bok choy and jasmine rice Tea and spice smoked local, pasture-raised
chicken with yang chow pork and
shrimp fried rice,           local spicy greens and housemade XO sauce Coconut braised Niman Ranch pork shank with fresh galangal,                           crispy shallots, spicy green papaya salad and jasmine rice  Fried whole North Carolina flounder with garlic, chiles, tamarind, fresh lime leaf,           carrot salad and jasmine rice Korean-style braised beef short ribs with local Napa kimchi and Pine Knot Farm           white sweet potato-chile pancake DESSERT Local heirloom apple and sorghum cake with caramel           and cider vinegar ice cream Coconut panna
cotta with passionfruit caramel           and a coconut cookie Hot chocolate cake with
roasted peanut ice cream Local
Asian pear sundae- crème fraîche ice cream,           spiced red wine caramel and honeyed pistachios Ferguson Farm concord-muscadine grape sorbet with a sesame-cashew fortune The evening was a for - a festival to promote and reinvigorate America’s diverse food traditions that will take place in San Francisco, May 1-4, 2008. - The dinner featured and once again Ben & Noah joined us. Listen to a discussion of the 1st Annual Fickle Creek dinner on WUNC FM's - in the bar featuring the English heritage duck breed known as Aylesbury. This delicious variety comes from ,
godfather of the heritage poultry revival. Each course was paired
with wines from Burgundy. - A
unique evening of food and wine along
with . Tony McClung, and Mike Tiano, of , gave a special wine class, followed by a seasonal Japanese dinner featuring local ingredients. This is a picture of Piedmont Biofuels' logo onour farm biodiesel tank.Biodiesel We believe it is best to participate maximally in the by purchasing and selling as close to home as possible. For example, we have purchased all our livestock within 30 miles of the farm, our layer feed is milled in Durham, and our most distant point of sales is 25 miles from the farm.Local Economy   Fickle Creek Farm Bed & Breakfast LEARN... EXPLORE...
LIVE... Quiet, rural setting, on 61-acre
working farm Passive solar home with screened
porch Market garden, laying hens, sheep, goats, steers, & pigs Only 5 minutes from
Interstate 40/85 Guests enjoy
farm fresh breakfasts with seasonal
fruits, vegetables, cheeses, eggs, & meats. The EfficiencyGarden Viewoffers you a home away from home with its full kitchen, private bath, and spacious deck. Queen Bed     1 night $120/night; 2 nights $100/night; 3 to 7 nights $95/night; 7+ nights $90/nightGarden View Rates Garden View Guests can receive additional discounts if guests wish to fix their own breakfast For availability call 919-304-6287 or email ficklecreek at mebtel dot net. Address: Email: eno.river@ncmail.net High
scenic views and mountain
trails await you at Occoneechee Mountain State
Natural Area. This Piedmont monadnock has
been recognized as one of the
most important natural areas in the Triangle. It is the highest point in Orange County at 867 feet, and the oak
forest, pond, field,
heath bluff, and river habitats found on the mountain support species that
are rare and significant in this region. With 190 acres of land and nearly three miles of trails, visitors can experience a wide variety of the area's natural surroundings and wildlife. N.C. Restored in 2006, it offers three
bedrooms,
each with its own private bath, fireplace
with gas logs, views of the gardens and decorative touches of the 1800s.  Rates include full breakfast (and earlier continental breakfast,
if desired), wine & cheese at 5pm and chocolates and cordials before bedtime. Work desk with high-speed
Internet, TV with remote, business services, plus use of laundry and
kitchen facilities.