1906, . Mary Lennox, a
10-year-old English girl who has been raised in India, dreams of nursery rhymes and Indian chants ("Opening"), and awakes to find her parents have died of . She is found by survivors and sent to live with her uncle, whom she's never met ("There's a Girl"). Mary is met in by Mrs. Medlock, housekeeper to her Uncle Archibald, a hunchback who has been inconsolable since his wife Lily's death ("The House Upon the Hill"). India cholera Yorkshire ()Note: Throughout the show, these and other songs are sung by a chorus of , referred to in the as "dreamers," who serve as narrators and for the action. ghosts libretto Greek chorus Mary has difficulty sleeping her first night there ("I Heard Someone Crying") as she and Archibald both mourn their losses. The next morning, Mary meets Martha, the chambermaid who entices Mary outside with tales of the gardens ("If I Had a Fine White Horse"), in particular, a secret hidden garden. Meanwhile, Archibald continues to wallow in his memories of Lily ("A Girl In the Valley"). Mary discovers the garden, laid out in style as a , as do gardener Ben and Martha's brother, Dickon, each with his own agenda ("It's a Maze"); however it has been locked since Lily's death as it reminds Archibald of her. Dickon, we learn, is something of a who comes to invoke the spring ("Winter's On the Wing"). There is a natural involution of spirit into matter followed by an evolution of matter back into spirit. The purpose of the Universe is for spirit to manifest itself self-consciously. This is done in small unassuming ways where individuals make a decided work out of doing their duty in the daily round, and learning to treat all others as their equal. In this way the Karma of our past, which precoccupies much of our endeavor, is resolved, the resolvent and solvent being the application of what the Buddhists call Good Heart through Mindfulness.what ye sow, so shall ye reap [] edit Universality Theosophy teaches that all life exists in an essential "Radical Unity" and in which all individual beings, regardless of the kingdom in which they exist (human, animal, vegetable or mineral), are involved in an inextricably interconnected single life. The advancement of any one aspect of this
synergistically bound Unity affects all
for the good. is a , the second screen adaptation of by . The
screenplay by was directed by . It centers on a young who is thrust into the dark and mysterious lives of her widowed uncle and his crippled son when she comes to live with them in their isolated country house in .The Secret Garden 1949 American drama film the classic 1909 novel Frances Hodgson Burnett Robert Ardrey Fred M. Wilcox orphan Yorkshire,
England The release was filmed
primarily in black-and-white, with the
sequences set in
the restored garden of the title filmed in . MGM
Technicolor Contents [] edit Plot synopsis When tempestuous Mary Lennox, born in to wealthy parents, is orphaned by a , she is sent to live with her reclusive and embittered Uncle Archibald Craven and her ill-behaved, bedridden cousin Colin at their desolate and decaying estate known as Misselthwaite Manor. Dickon, the brother of one of the house maids,
tells her of a garden secreted behind a hidden door in a
vine-covered wall. When a raven
unearths the key, the two enter
and discover the garden is overgrown from
neglect since Craven's wife died there in an
accident. They decide to keep their discovery a secret, and begin to restore it to its
original grandeur. Under the
influence of the
Secret Garden, Mary becomes less self-absorbed, Colin's health steadily
improves, and Archibald's curmudgeonly
personality fades away. And since
matter is merely the material opposite of
consciousness (ultimately the Highest
aspect of us being pure consciousness), this interpenetration of sheaths allows for consciousness to interpenetrate Man's nature and explains how we are sensitive to what we think is external stimulate, through the five
senses. Theosophy, as well as many other esoteric groups and societies, claims in their that the universe is ordered by the number . The reincarnating consciousness of the monad utilizes spirit/matter forms in : occult esoteric cosmology seven seven bodies The first body is called (, from meaning coarse, gross, not refined,
heavy, bulky, fat in the sense of bigness,
conditioned and differentiated
matter + to moulder, waste away). A gross
body, impermanent because of its
wholly compounded character. The physical
body is usually considered as the
lowest substance-principle. The physical form is
the result of the
harmonious co-working on the physical plane of forces and
faculties streaming through their astral vehicle
or linga-sarira, the pattern or
model of the physical body.sthula-sarira
Sanskrit sthulasarira The second body is called , (Sanskrit, from meaning characteristic mark, model, pattern + , from the verbal root sri to moulder, waste away). A pattern or model that is impermanent; the model-body or astral body, only slightly more ethereal than the physical body. It is the astral model around which the physical body is built, and from which the physical body flows or develops as growth proceeds.Linga-Sariralingasarira Margaret O'Brien and Dean
Stockwell are good as Mary and Colin,
even though O'Brien never quite stops
being imperious, even after she learns to love other
things besides herself. A
truly good film for
the whole family, and one that does justice to a great story. Great film -
restoration neededDecember 15, 2004
Pope(Wisconsin, United States)
19 out of 19 found this
review helpful I had only seen this
film I think once before the 1993 remake
was released, and the latter was the version I
grew up with. I never realized how great a film the 1949
original really was until
I rediscovered it
when it aired on TCM on
Christmas Eve two or three years ago. What a beautiful and extraordinary film! Although its obviously confined to soundstages at MGM Studios, the film more than makes up for that in its cast and cinematography. The majority of this film is shot in Black and White, but note well the use of Technicolor in some of the garden sequences. Apparently MGM wanted to keep these Technicolor scenes a secret, as the Technicolor credits do not appear until the end of the film, although it
is advertised in the
theatrical trailer
(which can be seen on the Warner Bros. Elizabeth
Towne The Nautilus Magazine, a Journal of New Thought
Prosperity Through Thought Force
[11] These magazines were used to reach a large audience. magazine, for example, had 45,000 subscribers and a total circulation of 150,000. One magazine, , was the longest-lived children's magazines in the United States, published from 1893 until 1991.Nautilus [9] Unity Church Wee Wisdom [12] [] edit Conventions and conferences The 1915
(INTA) conference held
in conjunction with the , a that took place
in featured New Thought speakers from far and wide. The PPIE organizers were so favorably
impressed by the INTA convention that they declared a special "New Thought Day" at the fair and struck a commemorative bronze medal for the occasion, which was presenting to the INTA delegates, led by .
International New
Thought Alliance
Panama-Pacific International
Exposition world's fair San Francisco Annie Rix Militz [13] By 1916, the had encompassed many smaller groups around the world, adopting a creed known as the "Declaration of Principles". The Alliance is held together by one central teaching: that people, through the constructive use of their minds, can attain freedom, power, health, prosperity, and all good, molding their bodies as well as the circumstances of their lives. The declaration was revised in 1957, with all
references to Christianity removed, and a new statement based on the "inseparable oneness of God and Man". The chief tenets of New Thought are: [14] Infinite Intelligence or God is omnipotent and omnipresent. Spirit is the ultimate reality. True human self-hood is divine. Divinely attuned thought is a positive force for good. All disease is mental in origin. Right thinking has a healing effect. [] edit Evolution of thought Adherents also generally believe that as humankind gains greater understanding of the world, New Thought itself will evolve to assimilate new knowledge. Alan Anderson and Deb Whitehouse have described New Thought as a "process" in which each individual and even the New Thought Movement itself is "new every moment." Thomas McFaul has hypothesized "continuous revelation," with new insights being received by individuals continuously over time. has spoken of the "possible human," or what we are capable of becoming. Jean Houston [15] The musical's book and lyrics are by , with music by . It premiered on at the on and closed on after 709 performances.The Secret Garden musical novel of the same name Frances Hodgson Burnett Marsha Norman Lucy Simon Broadway St. James Theatre 25 April 1991 3 January 1993 The musical, set in 1906, tells of a young girl, Mary, who is forced to move to England from colonial when her parents die in a outbreak. There she lives with her emotionally stunted Uncle Archibald and her invalid cousin. Discovering a hidden and neglected garden, and bravely overcoming dark forces, she and a young gardener bring it back to life at the same time as she brings new life to her cousin and uncle. English India cholera garnered the 1991 for Best Book of a Musical, Best Featured Actress in a Musical (), and Best Scenic Design (). One such puppet was Muffin the Mule, a dancing circus horse, often described as 'the first TV star'. In the 1950s children's TV expanded to include magazine programmes ( was a kind of forerunner to , which itself began as long ago as 1958) and live drama plays and serials, usually based on classic novels such as or . It was hoped that one day children's television would offer 'mini' versions of all kinds of 'grown-up' TV, from news to quizzes to
travel programmes. There were not enough
resources or money dedicated
to children's programmes in the 1950s
but it was hoped that one
day there would be such a wide
range of programmes that children's TV would
seem like 'a service
in miniature'.Studio EBlue PeterThe Railway ChildrenThe Secret Garden By the early '70s both BBC and ITV had realised that even if children only made up a small percentage of the viewing public it was vital that they had their own TV programmes - providing a public service should sometimes be more important than attracting the biggest audiences. This new understanding allowed children's television to expand further into new broadcasting hours, continuing to entertain, educate, excite and entrance generations of youngsters. The Ancient Wisdom Religion considers that in reaching such levels of selfless spiritual development, a man or woman naturally partakes in a Hierarchy of Being, where concern is the welfare and highest good of all beings. Therefore, in this sense, where religions would have men worship such Angelic types as the son of the Father (God), Theosophy teaches that all people are such beings in various stages of attainment, through the changing of their focus of life from the outer ego to the welfare of all others. Of course this must take as many lives to occur as it took to become enmeshed in so called material life. Medlock burst in, intending to give Colin his nightly shot, and dismiss her angrily, telling her she is never to see Colin again. As the storm reaches its peak, Mary runs outside and finds the garden ("Final Storm"). Act II Mary has a reverie about "The Girl I Mean to Be," with "a place I can go when I am lost." In reality, the garden is like her uncle and Mary herself, neglected and overgrown; it seems dead. Archibald relates his dream to Neville, a dream with Lily and Mary together in the garden. But Neville's dreams are darker; recalling Lily spurning him, Neville looks to the day when Archibald leaves for good and the house becomes Neville's ("Quartet"). At Neville's urging, Archibald agrees to send Mary to a boarding school and then leaves for , pausing only to read his son a fairy tale as Colin sleeps("Race You To the Top of the Morning"). Mary asks Dickon for help with the garden; Dickon explains that it is probably just and that "somewhere there's a single streak of green inside it" ("Wick"). After conversing with Colin about the discovered garden, Mary, Dickon,
and Martha clandestinely bring
Colin in his wheelchair
to the garden, as the ghost of his mother
sings to him and with him ("Come to My Garden/Lift Me
Up"). An EnglishAmerican playwright and
authorSee also , , . biography
media quotes Frances Hodgson
Burnett The White People
(Burnett) Works by this author are in the
in countries where the
copyright term is the author's life plus
70 years or less. public domain They are not necessarily in the in the United States if published from 1923 to 1977. For a US-applicable version, see {{}}. public domain PD-1996 or all works by this author are in the in the United States because they were published before January 1, 1923. They may be copyrighted outside the U.S. (see ).
However, works published before 1923 may be in the public domain in
countries where they would ordinarily be copyrighted (due to the term of 70 years [or less] after the author's death having not yet expired) but whose legislature has waived copyright by accepting the .Some public domain Help:Public domain rule of the shorter term He connected his idea of mental states of being with his
understanding of the new
scientific discoveries in and processes. disease nervous system William Walker Atkinson electromagnetism neural [21] [] edit Unity and Religious Science The two largest New Thought denominations are and . Religious Science operates under three umbrella organizations: Global Religious Science Ministries, Religious Science International and the United
Centers for Spiritual Living. , the founder of Religious Science, stated that Religious Science/Science of Mind (RS/SOM) is not based on any "authority" of established beliefs, but rather on "what it can accomplish" for the people who practice it. It therefore differs from the philosophy of another New Thought organization,
Unity, which identifies itself as
"Christian New Thought" with the
Bible as one of its main texts, although not interpreted literally,
the other core text's being by . Soon after she was being
published regularly in Godey's, Scribner's
Monthly, Peterson's
Ladies' Magazine and Harper's Bazaar. Her main writing talent was combining
realistic detail of
working-class life with a
romantic plot. She married Dr. L.
M. Burnett of Washington, D.C. in 1873. Her first novel was published in 1877; That Lass o' Lowrie's was a story of Lancashire life. After moving with her husband to Washington, D.C., Burnett wrote the novels Haworth's (1879), Louisiana (1880), A Fair Barbarian (1881), and Through One Administration (1883), as well as a play, Esmeralda (1881), written
with William Gillette. In 1886 she published Little Lord Fauntleroy. It was originally intended as a children's book, but had a great appeal to mothers. It created a fashion of long curls (based on her son Vivian's) and velvet suits with lace collars (based on Oscar Wilde's attire). The book sold more than half a million copies.
In 1888 she won a lawsuit in
England over the dramatic rights
to Little Lord Fauntleroy, establishing a precedent that was incorporated into British copyright law in 1911. In 1898 she divorced Dr. Burnett. She later re-married, this time to Stephen Townsend (1900). Her later works
include Sara Crewe (1888) - later rewritten as A
Little Princess (1905); The Lady
of Quality (1896) - considered one of the best
of her plays; and The Secret Garden (1909) - for which she is probably best known today. From the mid-1890s she lived mainly in England, but in 1909 she moved back to the United States. After her first son's death, Burnett delved into spiritualism and apparently found this a great comfort in dealing with her grief. During World War I, Burnett put her beliefs about what happens after death into writing with the novella: The White People. Frances Hodgson Burnett died in
Plandome, New York This biography
was taken verbatim from the . We're providing a snapshot just in case the Wikipedia servers were temporarily unreacheable. The is not only much more up-to-date, it also features links to other pages and sites. This snapshot was last updated: 08/07/2004. (mm/dd/yyyy) Wikipedia original page Frances Hodgson Burnett's from [See above]. biography Wikipedia
It comes to us from the Alexandrian
philosophers, called lovers of truth, Philaletheians, from phil "loving," and aletheia "truth." The name dates from the third century of our era, and began with and his disciples, who started the Eclectic Theosophical system.Theosophy Ammonius Saccas , literally "god-wisdom" (: ), designated several bodies of ideas predating Blavatsky:Theosophy Greek theosophia The term appeared in . (4.9) mentioned "Greek and theosophy", , .