Indiana Jones to the Temple of the Forbidden Eye. Unfortunately, Dr. Jones is one of those souls who has entered the temple, but has not yet returned. Close friends fear the worst, including entrepreneur Sallah, who has set up a tourist temple touring service with a small fleet of old military troop transport jeeps. Somewhere deep within the temple, Indiana Jones battles the forces of evil as time runs thin for anyone trying to escape the clutches of Mara. Do you dare enter the Temple of the Forbidden Eye yourself? Will you gain one of the incredible treasures and escape with Indy to revel in the next sunrise? People
don't typically discuss bathrooms in association with food but the restroom at Club 33 is special. On our visit, the women's restroom had several toilet stalls with cane seat covers you could look down the little holes through to see the toilet bowl below. As you can see, the stalls were very small on our visit. The men's facilities are ordinary and uneventful, I was told by a man.    Club 33 admission is private and must be arranged in advance (contact Disneyland for details). The great outdoors, with its open fields and mountains adorned with massive pine trees and thick brush plays home to hundreds of animals and creatures of all shapes and sizes; this could only be known as Critter Country. For the most part, this vast wilderness is untouched by
the hands of man; where he has
come face-to-face with nature, the two live in harmony and every day is one of those Zip-A-Dee-Doo-Dah days. From bejeweled Santa Barbara to surf crazy Santa Cruz, grape tasters and star gazers
can sip a Napa wine, enjoy a celestial view or spot celebrities at Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills.   California Beaches alphabetical list offers a wealth of resources that include videos and pictures of beaches, piers, sunsets, surfers, aerials images and sunbathing  information. The Holiday Inn Anaheim Resort sells Disneyland Tickets in the Disneyland Resort. Located just 1 mile from the Anaheim Convention Center. Other entertainment venues include: Anaheim Stadium/Honda Center, the
Home of the Anaheim Angels, just 1 mile from the Holiday Inn Anaheim Resort, Downtown Disney and Disney's California Adventure. Also close to the Holiday Inn Anaheim Resort is the Anaheim Pond, home of the Mighty Ducks. The perfect hotel for a Disneyland vacation. limb into a 4-seat mine car and enjoy the fun as youe taken right through the cottage of the seven dwarves and into their dazzling jewel mine. But be careful from there, as you take an unexpected turn into the castle of the wicked queen, a master of magic and disguises, who devising a plan of poison and peril to rid herself of Snow White so she can become
the fairest of them
all. Another wrong turn and youl end up in a dark, enchanted forest. Avoid the witch and her tempting apples as best you can aybe the dwarves will be able to help you get out of this
terrible, frightening jam! The most frequently asked questions (apart from those answered by the recorded information line) relate to merchandise and collectibles. Unquestionably one of the world's largest displays of fireworks, Disneyland utilizes the summer-night sky as a stage for "Fantasy in the Sky" every evening
from mid-June
to early September.
At the end of 1999, approximately 4,325 pyrotechnic shows had been staged since the first rocket started the tradition in 1956.   This is not an official Disney website and does not represent Disney Theme Parks. Today, there are more than 60 attractions in the Park.  When Disneyland opened, Anaheim had five hotels and two motels with a total of 87 rooms. There were 34 restaurants in the city. Today, Anaheim boasts approximately 150 hotels and motels, with approximately 18,000 rooms and well over 450 restaurants.  More than 400 million
guests have passed  through the gates of Disneyland Park since Opening Day, July 17, 1955. During the peak of summer, The Disneyland Resort work force includes nearly 14,000 men and women. Winter period employees total 12,500.  More than 5,000 gallons of paint are used each year to give the Park a better-than-new look. Presentation of the food is as lovely as the beautiful Japanese flower for which the restaurant is named. Recreation & More Recreation Take advantage of an incredible rooftop pool and waterslide area, fitness facility and
a movie viewing area just for kids. Kids can enjoy Disney film and TV favorites in this beach-themed room. It will be fun for everyone when relaxing at the scenic rooftop pool and waterslide area. Rub elbows with Goofy and his pals at this winningly whimsical buffet with many inventive culinary surprises. Goofy's Kitchen is a great place to throw birthday parties too, so if you are celebrating a big day, be sure and come party Disney-style! Plenty of great choices for kids of all ages, including Mickey Mouse shaped waffles, omelet made to order, peanut butter & jelly pizza, Goofy's Hot Chocolate Cake, and fruit yogurt and yummy toppings. American, Vegetarian, Healthy Selections Hook's Pointe Whether it is
the sparkling view of the Never Land pool, the design flourishes inspired by Captain Hook's pirate ship or the mesquite-grilled dinner favorites, you'll find something for everyone in the family. American Steakhouse 55 Indulge in an elegant dining experience with unparalleled service and a menu featuring an award-winning selection of prime steaks, chops and seafood. All along the way children from around the globe, dressed in their native attire, will serenade you with the song we've all come to know and love.  Slow Moving Boat No   Thrill: .5   Theme: 1.0   "it's a small world" Shows, Parades and Fireworks   The
LaughingPlace Store now carries a Disneyland Attraction Posters from Sanders CC Gallery This week the LPP discuss Disney's first quarter earnings, their favorite Princess songs and Great/Not-Great on Disney animated films after Walt Disney plus the Captain's
Challenge and a trip to see David Copperfield. Concierge Style Service at No Extra Charge! Professor Zelinski will be on hand to speak about his inventions and youl even get a sneak-peak demonstration of his shrinking/enlarging machine, as well as his duplicating machine!
An exciting 3-D experience to be sure, so don forget to pick up your safety goggles on the way in. And don worry, the professor, despite his unconventional methods, will be sure to give a fun, informative, glitch-free presentation. His days of good-natured blundering, resulting in the shrinking of his family or even , (giggle), the audience are in the past e hope. So bring the whole family, there plenty of room in the institute for all of you, and get ready for an experience thatl blow your mind .up. (Well, you know what I mean). Disney's California Adventure park Location... 1313 S Disneyland Dr., Anaheim, CA. USA   Follow the signs to
Sepulveda Blvd. South. Take I-105 E to I-605 N/S exit. Merge onto I-605 N. Take I-5/Santa Ana FWY towards Los Angeles/Santa Ana. Merge onto I-5. Continue for 12.7 miles until you reach the Disneyland Dr.exit toward Ball Rd. Merge onto Disneyland Dr.    Go E on East Airport Dr. towards Rental Car. Turn right on S Haven Ave. Take the CA-60 W ramp. Continue for 15.3 miles. Take CA-57 S towards Santa Ana. Merge onto CA-57S. Take Ball Rd. exit. Turn
right onto E Ball Rd.
Location & Map Hotel Overview Take a beachfront stroll to a bygone era when you stay at Disney's Paradise Pier Hotel. The Paradise Pier offers a nostalgic glimpse of life on the boardwalk complete with a nautical, retro decor and spectacular views of Paradise Pier at Disney's California Adventure park. Contemporary amenities and superior Disney service ensure the comforts and conveniences that make our Guests feel at home. Signature Disney service and a wealth of amenities that offer a Disney lodging experience unlike any other include - 489 guest rooms, many with stunning views; business center and conference facilities; casual elegance and signature Disney service; and a wealth of amenities for an exceptional Disney lodging experience! Restaurants
Disney's PCH Grill PCH stands for Pacific Coast Highway and this restaurant offers a family journey in great food. Or, step outside onto the porch and settle into a comfortable chair by the roaring fire. Storytellers Cafe The story-telling tradition is saluted in beautiful period murals depicting tall tales set in early California. The food harkens back to a simpler time with hearty home-style favorites dominating the menu. Recreation & More Recreation From pools to a modern fitness center, Disney's Grand Californian Hotel & Spa offers
an array of recreational activities for the entire family. Take a dip in this peaceful pool oasis, complete with an artisan-crafted turtle fountain. Enjoy a whimsical escape as you splash down the Redwood Tree-themed waterslide. The Twilight Zone Tower of Terror Sun Wheel California Screamin' Discounted Disneyland California Adventure® Tickets Let You Have More Fun! Whether it's your first, or one hundred and first visit to Disneyland® Resorts, you'll have an even greater adventure when you purchase discounted Disneyland California Adventure® attraction tickets. Bring the whole family to see all of the great Disneyland California Adventure® and Disney® attractions that you love while saving money. In addition to discounted Disneyland California Adventure® tickets, you'll also be able to find Disneyland® Park discounted attraction tickets, for double the fun! n over-sized caterpillar will gladly take you on a journey down the very same rabbit hole that Alice fell through. Experience her adventures in the forests, shrink to nearly bug-size, meet up with Tweedle Dee and Tweedle Dum, keep a sharp eye out for the elusive Cheshire cat,
and join the Queen of Hearts for a game of croquet. Careful, she a moody sort, and she may, on a whim, decide it "off with your head"! Keep following that white rabbit, he could lead you to a very merry unbirthday celebration with a wonderfully zany tea party!  Slow Moving Car No   Thrill: .6   Theme: .8  