  Workforce Innovation in Regional Economic Development (WIRED) is an initiative of the U.S. Department of Labor to address the challenges of global competition by preparing workforce for high-skilled, high-wage job
opportunities.WIRED brings together business, education, economic development, workforce development and other community leaders to develop
innovative, transformational changes in
the workforce system. America   Employment dips in November, jobs gains remain down from previous year. See the . November 2008 Labor Situation For the latest
Connecticut data on job
flow activity see the  (1Q-2008). Connecticut's Business Employment Dynamics   info on over 130 occupations in demand in the job market through the year 2016. CT Job Outlook by
Training Level 2006 - 2016 They may be unemployed or working part-time or full-time and need job training and education to obtain a job, increase wages, or
advance in jobs. These families struggle
as they live week to week or paycheck to paycheck;:People living on a low-income These people may need retraining to
re-enter the workforce. Whether it be technology training or training for a new profession, WorkPlace Scholarships are able to offer help. All employers of one or more persons (full or part-time) must register by filing an Employer Status Report. Failure to receive a copy of the form does not relieve the employer of the obligation to register.  Form Connecticut UC-1-NP is used to register qualified non-profit
organizations, Form Connecticut UC-1-MUN for municipalities and other government entities, including Federally recognized Indian Tribes and Form
UC-1A for all other employers. 
development plan.Each year, The WorkPlace works with a wide scope of business leaders, local officials and other stakeholders to develop a workforce development plan in which the area employment needs and interests are identified and addressed. In addition, The WorkPlace, Inc. reviews the plans of state departments and
the proposals of local agencies seeking state funds to ensure that activities are consistent with the region workforce n addition to our proven experience, we feature a highly-effective marketing campaign and service-oriented staff for our exhibitors,he explains. e also reach more jobseekers than any other employment event in the state. The Labor Department has an unbeatable track record in the career fair business
because our events are the most economical and cost-effective form of recruitment in Connecticut." JPMorganChase Job Start - grants and
no-interest loans for jobseekers    
Prolonged unemployment can be financially detrimental to many jobseekers, particularly low-wage workers with little or no savings or financial support from
friends or family.  The job search requires money for transportation to and from job interviews, childcare arrangements, interview clothes, uniforms
and fees for job-related licenses. Our site offers 3 account options for your resume. 1. Public - resume live in resume database for employers to search. 2. Confidential - resume live in resume database but contact information is not visible. 3. Private - resume is not live in the database. The resume is stored for applying to jobs faster. Can I cut and paste my resume into your form? "It's a good sign," said Jean Stimolo, program manager for Telecommute Connecticut, which provides employers with
free assistance to develop and implement telecommuting programs. "We're seeing a lot of companies who are interested . . .
This is very encouraging and
very
exciting." The agency estimates the state has about
158,000 telecommuters, compared with 85,260 five years ago. Eligibility (must meet one): Any
individual who has a physical or mental impairment that impedes their ability to work. Individuals must provide appropriate documentation. This report must also detail how the impairment creates an impediment to employment. An individual who has been determined eligible for Supplemental Security Income (SSI) or Social
Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) benefits. In fact,
research by AARP shows that many baby boomers would defer retirement if they had more flexibility in their schedules.   By 2014, it’s estimated nearly one-third of the total U.S. workforce (32%) will be 50 or older. These highly skilled workers can positively impact your bottom line. Generally, they:
Veterans receive case management, housing counseling, pre-vocational skills, job information, and other appropriate services. Veterans work with job counselors to stay on the job, tracking veterans' progress for six months. Veterans learn skills at a computer lab that is supported by SBC at Homes for the Brave, and also receive employment services through the Southwestern CTWorks Career Centers. If you'd like your
skills noticed by the top recruiters in New England,
you've come to the right site.
Your resume information will be privately viewed by the top recruiting firms and Fortune 500 companies in New England, and also by small entrepreneurial start-ups and mid-sized
companies looking for good employees. If
you're an employer searching for knowledgable, career oriented employees in New England, let NewEnglandJob.com help you in your search. Primary
responsibilities
include overseeing of complex tax research projects for clients in diverse industries; participation in engagements requiring tax analysis for a variety of entities and their affiliates; research and analysis of a wide range of tax issues related to business transactions and tax implications of financing techniques; and tax-planning responsibilities for our corporate and individual clients. Why can't I log in? If you are
having trouble submitting a
form or logging in, you may
have a firewall or Internet security
software that is blocking access. Our site uses user-based sessions for certain forms and admin login areas. You will need to adjust your Internet security software and allow/grant access for our site. The Regional Transportation Task Force has, through its regional, collaborative approach:People to Jobs Expanded bus service
in Stamford, Norwalk, Bridgeport,
Trumbull, Fairfield,
Stratford, Shelton, and Derby. Created the Coastal Link service which provides direct service from Milford to Norwalk seven days per week. Participated in an educational outreach effort to improve access to jobs for people with disabilities. These packages are ideal for small and mid- sized companies. - With these packages,
your company can post unlimited
jobs in the timeframe purchased. For example an unlimited 3 month package will provide your company the ability to post unlimited jobs for 90 days. In addition, these packages also include limited access to the resume
database.2) Unlimited
Job Posting Packages Alabama
Alaska Arizona Arkansas California Colorado Connecticut District of Columbia Delaware Florida Georgia Guam Puerto Rico Hawaii Idaho Illinois Indiana Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana Maine Maryland Massachusetts Michigan Minnesota Mississippi Missouri Montana Nebraska Nevada New Hampshire New Jersey New Mexico New York North Carolina North Dakota Ohio Oklahoma Oregon Pennsylvania Rhode Island South Carolina South Dakota
Tennessee Texas Utah Virginia Vermont US Virgin Islands Washington West Virginia Wisconsin Wyoming
- AskYourRecruiter.com Employers: -
Contact
us to save on your hiring needs...203-315-1191 Tired of Outrageous Staffing Agency Fees? Tired of
the wrong type of resumes from job board/newspaper ads that waste your time? Let us make your recruiting life
simple and cost efficientand See how CareersInCT.com/ContractStaffingRecruiters.com and CareersInConnecticut can fill your position(s) and make your hiring life simple and cost efficient. The Job & Career ConneCTion helps you identify occupations that may be a good match for your skills, interests, and personality, and provides you with detailed information on these occupations. It will help you find appropriate education and training opportunities and identify employers who may hire people for those occupations. It will also provide
tools
to help you get the job that is
right for you - including help in writing a rum getting through the job interview, and finding day care for your children.
span style="FONT: 7pt 'Times New Roman'">       capable
mature workers span style="FONT: 7pt 'Times New Roman'">       for entry-level to mid-level jobs span style="FONT: 7pt 'Times New Roman'">       who
have completed the program
at Gateway Community CollegeWorksMaturityfor Business span style="FONT: 7pt 'Times New Roman'">       and who are eager to meet your needs and be productive.   2You provideon-the-jobtraining and experience, as you would for any new hire. Human Services Customer Service All participants receive comprehensive counseling and guidance, as well as follow-up for at least 12 months by Youth Workforce Specialists of The
WorkPlace, Inc. The 2007/2008 youth programs are
administered by contracted
providers in the Southwestern CT region including: Career Resources, Inc., Marrakech, Inc., City of Milford, FSW, Inc., Literacy Volunteers of Southeastern Fairfield County, Bridgeport Area Youth Ministry, Inc., NEON, Corraro Center for Careers and the Yearwood Center, Inc. Please e mail the Committee at Schedule October October 10-11: Equal Justice Works Public Service Career Fair, Washington, DC. Go to for more
information. http://www.equaljusticeworks.org October 25: Utility Day. for more information. Contact BLSA November November 6: - 12:30 p.m. Knight 115 Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Info Meeting November 14: PILG Auction, 6:00 p.m. West Hartford Town Hall Percentage declines were greatest in services.pipeline transportation, warehousing and storage, federal government, telecommunications, utilities and educational
servicesfishing, hunting and trapping; apparel manufacturing; Internet publishing and broadcasting; and ISPs, search portals and data processing
Covering more than 90 percent of all workers in the State, the Unemployment Insurance (UI) program provides a more
detailed view of Connecticut industries than is available from other sources. Through introductory,
intermediate, and advanced
level coursework, the program curriculum
will provide transferable job skills for both entry level and experienced workers to advance in the Insurance and Finance sector. The program will also support economic growth by helping supply the talent needs of the industry.Goals There is no cost to those enrolled in the program. A highly effective job-readiness project that teaches positive attitudes and prepares economically and culturally disadvantaged jobseekers to succeed in the world of work.STRIVE of Fairfield County A walk-in information and referral center located in the
Bridgeport office.  Operated in partnership with InfoLine, the Center provides information regarding all types of resources, including those for
childcare, transportation,
housing, and food.The Community Network Center Despite your hectic schedule, you may have opportunities for
volunteerism, you could
work with the program or get involved
with the University's program, which often offers short term commitment opportunities for those looking to give
back to their communities but don't seem to be able to find the time to make a long term commitment. We will make every effort to accommodate your needs.  **PLEASE NOTIFY US IF YOU HAVE A NEED FOR A LARGE DISPLAY AREA dol.jobfair@ct.gov Job seekers will attend up to the advertised ending time, and it is discourteous if you leave early. So please be considerate and stay for the full event!**YOU ARE REQUIRED TO STAY
THROUGH THE FULL PROGRAM! To
download the RFP, go to the
"Request for Proposal" section of
this website.
Second RFP Proposals (due 5/8/2008):  "Regional Workforce Plan, Asset Map & Skill Gap Analysis" Questions and Answers from Bidders' Conference held on April 18, 2008.  See under . RFP Event To download the RFP, go to the
"Request for Proposal" section of this website. More on
WIRED Articles include reviews of new Web sites and books, occupational descriptions, announcements
of conferences and job fairs,
and other articles of interest. To receive a free subscription to Connecticut Career Resource Network Update,
call Carol Bridges in the
Office of Research at (860) 263-6258, or send a request via e-mail to . carolyn.bridges@ct.gov To view the PDF format you must have the . Protect Yourself Crane Safety Fatalities and serious injuries can occur if cranes are not inspected and used properly. Many fatalities can occur when the crane
boom, load line or load contacts power
lines and shorts electricity to ground. Other incidents happen when workers are struck by the load, are caught inside the swing radius or fail to assemble/ disassemble the crane
properly. Try to select at
least 15 subjects or activities that interest you. The Career Interest Checklist - A quick and easy questionnaire that will help you discover your personality type. TypeFocus Personality Profile - A 20-30 minute questionnaire that can determine your level of interest in each occupational field and provide a list of occupations matching your interests. 406 TTY (203) 335-2419 Career Centers in Stamford and Derby are
self-service
centers offering internet access, use of phones, fax, copier, mailing, job postings, and ADA compliant equipment.CTWorks EveryOne Works is a project of The WorkPlace, Inc. and operated by Career Resources. For information contact: The WorkPlace, Inc. 350 Fairfield Avenue Bridgeport, CT 06604 (203) 610-8500 Jon Bauer Clinical Professor of Law Hosmer 329 860-570-Contact Information: 5205 Book Chapters Secret Settlements
and Lawyers' Ethics, in Crafting
Settlements: Tools and Rules (Connecticut Bar Association, 2005) Housing Discrimination Procedures and Remedies in Connecticut, in Fair Housing
Practices: A Primer on Fair
Housing Law: Course Materials (Lorman Education Services, 2002). Employment Discrimination
Procedures in Connecticut, in The Leveler (Connecticut Employment Lawyers= Association, Vol. ~  Issues a national report based on research
conducted, and produce a ow totelework toolkit for workforce development boards, public and private employers, workers, veterans with disabilities, and the
agencies that serve them.     The Telework Research Project's primary partners are:  Career Resources, Inc., Connecticut Veterans' Administration, and the U.S.
Department of VeteransAffairs
Connecticut Health System.  
Telework Research is a project of The WorkPlace, Inc., and funded by the U.S.   Help with projects to promote the services
of The WorkPlace to individuals and businesses. Help develop and implement outreach campaigns, including ways to reach target audiences and design/creation of elements such as flyers, brochures, web content, and publicity.Marketing / Communications Period of Performance: During the academic year (work approximately 120
hours per semester around
academic schedule) During the summer
months (part-time or full-time by mutual
agreement) Confidentiality: A Guide to
the New Federal Regulations (1988) [with The Legal Action Center]. Employment Discrimination in New
York and What to Do About It: A Guide for Counselors of Former Alcohol and Drug Abusers and Ex-offenders (1988) [with The Legal Action Center]. Journal Articles Buying Witness Silence: Evidence-Suppressing Settlements and Lawyers' Ethics, 87 Oregon L. Rev. (forthcoming 2008). Health Insurance Choose from a number of health plans as well as an exclusive dental program. Discounted Long Distance Telephone Service AT & T Profit by Association Plan and SNET LYNX Cellular. Discounted Energy Services
Chamber member companies have
access to discounted
electricity and natural gas through the Power of Association program and Select Energy. They had a great time working on
the project and some of them are considering engineering as a major in college. I think what really got them interested
was showing them great engineering feats,
such as some of the skyscrapers, advanced aircraft, and
computers. My hosts gave me advice about
the plan, but they were not
directly involved in the plan.  The program entitled, is implementing a strategy to create new partnerships with six Bridgeport-based FBCOs (New
Vision International
Community
Development Corporation, St.
John Family Center, Taste and
See Ministries, Refocus Outreach
Ministries,
Greater Bridgeport O.I.C., and JSM
Development) that are providing social
services.   The six FBCOs provide outreach, recruitment, intensive case management, and support services to project participants during their transition into employment.Making It Real in Bridgeport Craigslist | | | | | Search for jobs in Connecticut by category, location or keyword. Jobs Listings Find a temporary or contract job in CT by category. Search by location in Connecticut. Interestingly, it also has comments
from people talking about their experiences with the company who posted the listing. Career fairs around Connecticut. After all, approaching discussions from different angles when buying materials from a supplier could mean the difference between . . . 11/9/2005 San Jose, CA—If current trends continue, the percentage of Connecticut's workers with a college degree will decrease and the personal income of state residents will decline over the next 15 years, . Military veterans need a new job and residence.  Securing either becomes even
more difficult for veterans whom have
been emotionally, physically, or mentally
handicapped in the line of
duty.  An estimated 1,200 veterans have no place to live in Southwestern Connecticut.  The average veteran is in his mid-40's and has been homeless for more than a year. The helps veterans develop job skills, find a job, and secure a place to live.Homeless Veterans Reintegration Program The firework
festivities were held in Meriden's , on July 3rd, and other witnesses posting to YouTube claim they saw a similar "UFO" in Indiana the next night.
Another person describes the Unidentified Flying Object as looking "like a plane on fire". You can view Ben Smithwick's amazing exclusive cell phone video of
"Aliens in Connecticut" here:
It is never too early to begin
thinking about your life
beyond UConn and entering the
world of work! During your undergraduate career there are many opportunities for you to start
networking, gaining valuable experiences and preparing yourself for life after graduation. As an athlete, you
have already developed many skills
employers find
attractive in potential employees.
As Southwestern Connecticut
Regional Workforce Development Board
, it administers workforce
development funds and coordinates providers of job
training and education programs to
meet the needs of residents and employers in the Southwestern Connecticut Region.   (View diagram of how The WorkPlace, Inc. works.)   Mission The mission of The WorkPlace, Inc. is to develop a well educated, well trained, and self-sufficient workforce that can compete in the changing global marketplace. The Academy for Career Advancement gives workers the opportunity to build the essential skills needed to advance
into higher paying jobs within
their company, or make profitable career changes, while maintaining their current employment.   The Academy offers low wage workers increased
access to a full
range of job retention and advancement
services all at no charge.   Job Seeker Resources The first step towards connecting with a job or career is to determine which occupation is a
good match for your personality
and the skills you possess. On this page
you will find many links to tools to help you assess yourself in order to match your profile with an occupation.   "It's getting easier to work from home," said Ed Houghton, director of work force effectiveness for Pitney Bowes. "What we're seeing is a greater use of remote work in general." Pitney Bowes, which has offices in Stamford and Shelton, already uses "visitor centers," where employees traveling between the two locations can work. And the company encourages employees to telecommute more often to save on energy costs, Houghton
added.