To do this, Dabbs says "we need to know what happens in natural settings outside the laboratoryWe have gathered data in settings ranging from bedrooms to barrooms, among subjects who include children, adults, unemployed day labourers, lawyers, prisoners, politicians and two chimpanzees." He's ventured into fire departments, construction sites, colleges, strip clubs and sports arenas. Professor James Dabbs Over the past decade Dabbs and his colleagues have found testosterone levels to influence a person's tendency towards criminal violence, delinquency, suicide, heroic altruism and aggression, as well as their cognition, sexuality and sex roles, occupation, personality, emotions, competitiveness, childhood behaviour, facial expressions, disturbed
relationships and more. Are there prostate tumors in dogs? Are testicular tumors frequent?   Yes, in this case the testicles can be located under the skin or the abdomen. In this case, if they suffer from cancer no one will see them. The risks of metastasis are very high. This is why it is preferable to remove the hidden testicles, but it is not
completely necessary to castrate the animal. This site currently covers bovine, ovine, and bubaline antelope, with canine feline, equine porcine, and caprine sections in development. Visual Online Reproduction Guides An online, illustrated book that discusses the search for mutant genes that cause the 4,000 hereditary disorders affecting humans. Blazing a Genetic Trail (Human) Gene Tests is a publicly funded medical genetics
information resource developed for physicians, other healthcare providers, and researchers. Non-orange male to tortoiseshell female (+ to +O): Males 50% orange and 50% non-orange; females 50% non-orange and 50% tortoiseshell. Non-orange male to orange female (+ to OO): all males orange; all females tortoiseshell. Orange male to non-orange female (O to ++): All males non-orange; all females tortoiseshell. Orange male to tortoiseshell female (O to O+): males 50% orange and 50% non-orange; females 50% orange and 50%
tortoiseshell. Estrogen and progesterone are the so-called female sex hormones, and testosterone, the so-called primary male sex hormone. With that we assign our hormones impossible gender roles. But of course gender ain't that simple, and nor are our hormones. It turns out men and women produce exactly the same hormones, only in different amounts. Men's bodies generate more than twenty times more testosterone than women, an average of seven milligrams per day. You might want to supplement your dog's diet with an herbal remedy known to help with brain and nervous system function such as EaseSure. Keep a close eye on your dog for signs of additional strokes, and get to the vet right away if you think he has a second one. Home Remedies for
Canine Storke With this approach you should see a gradual improvement in health and vitality in 3 to 6 weeks. Depending on the seriousness of the situation, these are the
steps an owner should take if his/her dog is suffering from heat exhaustion: 1) Move the dog out of the sun and into the shade or into an air-conditioned building or follow the instructions for shading the dog, as directed above in "Heat Stroke." 2) Give the dog water to drink, but do NOT allow the dog to drink copious amounts. Not all breeds have the same problems, but breeders should know what they are and be able to tell you which ones they've tested for. And if you've done your homework beforehand, you'll know if they're checking the right things. Here are some red flags that should make you wary. The presence of any one of them is not necessarily an indication
that something IS wrong, but you should definitely check further if you see any of these: By Car - Keep your dog cool in the car by putting icepacks in his crate. Make
sure the crate is well ventilated. Put a sunshade
on your car windows. Bring along fresh water and a bowl, and a tarp or tent so you can set up a shady spot when you stop. Keep a spray bottle filled with water to spritz on your dog to cool him down. Even on a mild day (75-80 degrees F), the temperature inside a car can raise up to 130 degrees rather quickly. Leaving a window slightly open will not
prevent heat build-up. Leaving a dog in a car on a warm day is a risk to the dog's life. There are many variables in triggering a dog to
experience heat exhaustion; the dog's physical condition, its age, its coat length, its breed, and its climatization to heat. If your pet exhibits any of these signs, treat it as an emergency and call your veterinarian
immediately. On the way to your veterinary hospital, you can cool your pet with
wet towels, spray with cool water from a hose or by providing ice chips for your pet to chew (providing he is conscious). and . His skin temperature loss probably is not only inefficient but, since he does not prespire, he will probably increase the temperature of his skin and his body temperature as well. Anything that would interfere with a dog's
ability to pant efficiently can also be a great danger to him in hot weather. It
is not uncommon to hear of animals who have died of heat stroke after having been given an anesthetic for some minor surgical procedure and then left in a hot car. von Willebrand disease von Willebrand factor estrous cycle [40] *
is a common condition in dogs characterized by low counts. Platelets are used in
clotting the blood, so dogs with this condition may have spontaneous bleeding or prolonged bleeding following surgery, injury, or during an . Causes include some infections such as , cancers such as , or immune-mediated disease. Thrombocytopenia platelet estrous cycle rickettsial ehrlichiosis hemangiosarcoma [41] There are now, at least, 300 different breeds around the world. Due to this evolution some breeds have faded away, while some new ones have come to the fore.Below is a list of Dog Questions
with the relation Answer. We have 100s of
them. When was the first dog tamed?   Evolution of the Domesticated Dog They also seem to be obsessed with keeping themselves clean. Many have compared the breed's fastidious
nature to that of a cat. Like cats, these dogs are independent, but they do not enjoy quiet time alone. The basenji is an affectionate dog but may not be the best choice for families with very young children. If appropriately socialized, the breed can live well with older children. Never confine your pet
in a car during warm months. Temperatures in a car can rise quite a lot higher than the outside temperature, even with the windows open. Even 10 minutes inside a hot car is enough to
cause heatstroke in cats and dogs. Rabbits, hamsters, and birds overheat even faster. Leaving the windows in your car open "just a crack" isn enough to prevent heatstroke. Provide outdoor shade. Your dog may show signs of nesting, nervousness, panting, shivering, loss of appetite, and vomiting. When your dog starts experiencing stronger contractions and expels watery fluid, she is in the second stage of labor. The first puppy will enter your dog's pelvic canal, stimulating her to push more aggressively. As each
puppy is expelled, your dog will usually break the thin, whitish membrane surrounding the puppy. Canine Idiopathic Epilepsy is diagnosed after all other causes have been ruled out. Learn about the symptoms, diagnosis and treatment options for canine epilepsy. Canine Idiopathic Epilepsy Guide to dog health eye. Read about common dog eye diseases and conditions Dog Health Eye Dog eye infection can be due to muliple causes. Learn about the symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of canine eye infection. Dog Eye Infection Learn about the symptoms, diagnosis and treatment of canine fleas and allergic reactions to fleas. The female dog has spontaneous ovulation. This means that ovulation is independent from being mounted. This occurs every 6
months. A late or anticipated heat is not strange. The duration of this cycle varies from an animal to another and also depends on the breed,
but it is usually between 150 and 300 days. This cycle has four phases: the proestro, and the estro, that constitute the period of heat, and the diestro and anestro which are the phases of sexual resting. temperature of the fat associated with the foot and leg
as compared to the melting temperature of body fat. The
best example of this noted in the case of neatsfoot oil which is the fat from the foot of a cow as compared to the tallow which is the fat from the body of the cow. As you
remember,
neatsfoot oil is a liquid at normal room temperature, whereas
tallow is solid. The remaining citizens were escorted out of the city by Arjun. Yet, when the band was set upon by robbers, Arjun, weakened by grief, failed to protect them. The death of Krishna drove the Pandavas to grief. (Having fought an internecine war, the fruits had always been Pyrrhic, and the shadow of grief had never really left them.) Weary of the world, Yudishtra abdicated the throne in favour of a great-nephew. The worst sin towards our fellow creatures is not to hate them, but to be indifferent to them. That's the essence of inhumanity .  -George Bernard Shaw
Did You Know?Facts About Spaying or Neutering your
Pets Two unaltered cats and all their offspring can number an astounding 420,000 in 7 years. Two unaltered dogs and their offspring can number 67,000 in 6 years. Both males and females are fertile well into their advanced age. It is generally considered best for the bitch to be bred for the first time upon maturity but not before her second or third heat cycle, depending on her age at the first. Because small breeds mature more
quickly, they can be bred at an earlier age than large breeds. A complete medical history and thorough physical examination, including rectal temperature. A complete blood count (CBC or hemogram) to assess the severity of dehydration and cardiovascular stress. Tests of coagulation including: activated coagulation
time (ACT); prothrombin time (OSPT); partial thromboplastin time (APTT); serum fibrinogen concentration; platelet count;
and fibrin degradation products (FDPs) to identify the
presence of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC)
a life-threatening body-wide failure of blood clotting that
is often a complication of heat stroke. These side
effects can set in on the same day or within weeks of heat stroke. Be sure to
consult with your
veterinarian. In most dogs if they can survive for 72 hours from the onset of the condition, then they should be fine. Prevention of Canine Heat Stoke The key to heatstroke is to recognize it as early as possible and to immediately begin bringing your dog's body temperature down to 103F. By Whitney05 Female Dogs Personality-wise there is really nothing different from a female dog and a male dog. You've got your dominant and aggressive female dogs just like you do males, and vice versa you've got your
submissive and calm
female dogs just like males. So when deciding if you want a male or female dog, your main concerns in terms of differences will typically be the dog's size, as females are generally
smaller than males (not always but generally), and whether or not you want to get the female spayed. The bitch may display estrus behavior for longer than the duration of the time in which she is capable of conceiving. the fertile period can be estimated retrospectively from vaginal cytology by counting back five
to six days from the onset of cytologic diestrus.
again, a bitch that is routinely bred on predetermined breeding dates may be bred at a time she is not fertile. Spring,
steel coil-wrapped cord helps prevent chewing. Cord
is UL approved. Durable, sanitary, ABS plastic construction with rounded corners. Use indoors or outdoors, in kennels, whelping areas or post surgical situations. Heating element
molded into high-density durable polyethylene allowing it to be washed. Internal thermostat keeps the temperature at a desirable 100°. Spaying female dogs and cats
eliminates the possibility of uterine or ovarian cancer and greatly reduces the incidence of breast cancer, particularly when your pet is spayed before the first estrous cycle. Neutering male dogs reduces the incidence of prostrate cancer and prostate disorders. Spayed and neutered pets are better, more affectionate companions. Neutered cats are less likely to spay and mark territory. These are secreted by the hypophysis gland. These are two: the FSH, that stimulated the growth of the follicles and is used for therapeutic ends, and the LH that unleashed ovulation.The Gonadotropines:   It is secreted by the same gland as the FSH; it permits the dilation of the tissue
during birth. It is also used to provoke labor.The Oxiticine: Your veterinarian will take a complete medical history and perform a thorough physical examination. The following emergency tests may also be included: Diagnosis In-depth Packed cell volume or PCV. This is a simple test to evaluate your dog
for anemia. It determines the percentage of the blood
occupied by red
blood cells, which is normally 35 to 55 percent in dogs. Some mothers fail to break the sac and free the puppy. If so, you should help her to break the sac and free the puppy and encourage her to lick the puppy. If she fails to lick the
newborn pup, you should gently but vigorously rub the puppy with a rough towel until it starts breathing and crying. We will describe its living cycle from birth to old age,
paying special attention to the socialization stage and
its influence on the
dog until the end of their life. The second part is based on the meaning of having a dog, including expert's advices [ ] that are very useful to for you, fulfill its needs, dealing with the dog, training the dog, stating who is charge, avoiding not getting or garden destruction, traveling with a dog, keeping the dog clean, properly feeding the dog and also making sure the dog exercises enough. The third part of the site is dedicated to preventive medicine, the diseases and accidents, reproduction and the
differentDog Breed
CHARACTERISTIC AND Care NEEDS:  Dog Health Forum & Dog Training Forum choose the most suitable dog Cedar Dog House Administer any medications prescribed by your veterinarian and contact your veterinarian if you are experiencing problems treating your dog. Observe your dog's activity level and appetite. Monitor his skin for bruising and gums for pinpoint hemorrhages. Your dog should be re-examined after 3 to 7 days to evaluate serum biochemical tests and an electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG) if arrhythmias
were detected during hospitalization. The drugs dopamine and may be used to dilate blood vessels to the kidneys and to increase urinary excretion of salt and water, respectively. These treatments are given when acute kidney failure due to heat stroke is suspected. furosemide is a coating agent that can be used to limit gastrointestinal bleeding. Sucralfate and are drugs that can be used to decrease acid secretion by the stomach and reduce the risk of gastrointestinal bleeding. In general it is
believed that
on the nineteenth day of the dogs heat stage, is the most fertile day of the cycle; however this varies from dog to dog depending on the breed. The female dog will make it pretty evident
when she is ready to copulate by showing a great interest in male dogs and by lifting her tail showing her vulva and occasionally a liquid segregates from it. In another environmental exposure experiment dogs and cats were infested one and 7
days after treatment, a second treatment being
administered 30 days later. The percentage of reduction of flea infestation was 99.8% for dogs and 100% for cats (5). In a third study (14), dogs and cats were given five treatments at 30 days intervals and infested with fleas 28 and 21 days before treatment and then at weekly intervals. Or if she a bit small or large for the breed standard, she should be bred to a dog that is the correct size. Temperament Since temperament is also inherited , even if Puffin is a perfect physical example of the breed, she must have the typical breed temperament in order to be a good candidate for breeding. A Cocker Spaniel should be happy-go-lucky, sweet, good with children, and relatively responsive to training. Some anomalies are not important: they
provoke problems with reproduction, but out of that period the dog can live a normal life. On the other hand, some malformations cause frequent infections that can cause serious problems.Malformation of the genital organs: Scientifically, we talk about hermaphrodism. Hermaphrodism is the presence of both
male and female organs in the same animal. This anomaly is rare in dogs and it presents distinct manifestations.