For our clients with multistate
activity, we meticulously review
apportionment computations
and analyze the relevant law for every dollar
included in the numerator and
denominator. In summary, our Firm reviews all elements
of our client's franchise tax liability to ensure that every opportunity has been realized. Our team of
experienced professionals
is committed to identifying tax
savings opportunities and
advocating the corresponding issues to achieve outstanding results.  If you rent or own a property jointly with other people then all the joint tenants or owners share responsibility for paying Council Tax. Some people however may be eligible to apply for Housing Benefit or Council Tax Discount from their local council. International Students and
Council Tax The Council Tax rules apply in the same way to all students regardless of nationality. For further information regarding this notice, or to submit comments, please contact Colleen Berwick at the Franchise Tax Board Legal Branch, P.O. Box 1720, Rancho Cordova, CA 95741-1720; Tel.:( 916)845-3648; E-Mail: .
colleen_berwick@ftb.ca.gov
The hearing officer for this symposium is Edwin Campion of the
Franchise Tax Board's Audit Division.  Mr. Campion may be contracted at the
Franchise Tax Board,
Multistate Audit Program
Bureau, P.O. Approved by CTEC as a Qualifying
Course to become a California Registered Tax Preparer. Covers Both -
Federal and California State Taxation National Tax Training School, the nation's foremost
specialized tax training institute, offers this California Tax Education Council
(CTEC) approved tax
course - especially developed for home study - a clear, thorough,
fascinating program that
teaches you everything you need to
know to legally prepare tax
returns. Database vs. website Find print and online information for popular research topics. Research Guides Funk & Wagnall's New World Encyclopedia For students and adults alike, the database indexes over 25,000 encyclopedia articles. Full text for each record may be easily accessed by double clicking on the topic from the display. You will need to
enter your library card barcode
number. Funk & Wagnall's New
Encyclopedia Not in the library? >
Home Databases Biographical
Information