Election Cartography Election Cartography- See it with Maps Welcome to Election Cartography! This site is only for electoral maps of my creation. I will not entirely copy another person or site's maps. Hopefully, through this site, you
shall
be able to notice a few trends in elections worldwide. Enjoy! Created by Gael L'Hermine Site Notices This site is in constant construction. Maps will always be added. Links to pages that have yet to be created will be .italicized Not Dead!
It's been a long time since any updates, but hopefully I'll continue soon enough- I'm currently having lots of other things to do
right now. LaSAlle St., Indianapolis Indiana 46201 Phone # 1800-227-4199 ] Can anyone tell me what causes the variation in the US, is it to do with age or to do with state or something else? Upsidedown Resources Dreaming Upside-Down Oxfam Joaqu n Torres, a Uruguayan painter, lived in Barcelona in the early 1900s. He questioned why world maps are drawn with North at the top when the universe is infinite and has no sides and the world is suspended in it. In the late 1930s he returned to Uruguay, and made this 1943 (image on a magic realist map site). It is an early example of
an upside down map. In its most general definition, this experience of seeing
patterns in random data is called a term that also covers the phenomenon of
‘false positives’ in statistics, for example.apophenia- A
more specific type of apophenia, appliccable here, would be :
perceiving significance in
stimuli that have none. This perceived significance is usually more revealing of the perceiver than of the stimuli,which is why this principle is used in Rorschach (i.e. inkblot) testing.
It also might explain why it’s often the devout that see images
of Jesus on a piece of toast.pareidolia But, as mentioned before,
sometimes the stimulus is
just too convincing, the pareidolia too blatant. This site provides information about the flowering plants and ferns of Zimbabwe and
is a joint venture between Bart Wursten and Mark
Hyde. We expect that it will also be useful for people living in neighbouring
countries, namely Botswana, Malawi, Mozambique,
South Africa and Zambia as parts of their flora are similar to that of Zimbabwe. A sample image from the Zimbabwe flora This month's image is of an plant species, the first time we have featured one. It is , the Broad-leaved pondweed. The picture
shows the leaves,
which are relatively broad as
the name implies,
floating on the surface of a small pond. The inflorescence, an erect spike, is also in the picture although it is not easy to see against the background. Six species of have been recorded from Zimbabwe. The mission of the Library of Congress is to make its resources available and useful to Congress and the American people and to sustain and
preserve a universal collection of knowledge and creativity for future generations. The goal of the Library's National Digital Library Program is to offer broad
public access to a wide range of historical and cultural documents as a contribution to education and lifelong learning. The Library of Congress presents these documents as part of the record of the past. These primary historical documents reflect the attitudes, perspectives, and beliefs of different times. The Library of Congress does not endorse the views expressed in these collections,
which may contain materials offensive to some readers. The unparalleled cartographic excellence that National Geographic is known for is now available to organizations with a story to tell. Our tradition of meticulous, handcrafted mapmaking is enhanced with the latest technologies, including geographic information systems, satellite imagery, 3D modeling, and visualization techniques. Thematic Maps We have created a portfolio of custom thematic maps for non-governmental organizations ranging from the American Bird Conservancy to the World Bank, and commercial clients such as Dow and Ford. On each project we work closely with the client to develop an editorial concept that meets their objectives. Optical technology, such as
the , and other
devices that use telescopes, allowed for accurate surveying of land and the ability of mapmakers and navigators to find their by measuring angles to the at night or the at noon. printing press quadrant vernier telescope sextant latitude North Star sun Advances in photochemical technology, such as the and , have allowed for the creation of maps
that have fine details, do not
distort in shape and resist moisture and wear. This also
eliminated the need for
engraving which further shortened the
time it takes to make and reproduce maps. lithographic
photochemical processes In the late 20th century and early 21st century advances in electronic technology led to a new revolution in cartography. Specifically, devices such as computer screens, plotters, printers, scanners (remote and document) and analytic stereo plotters along with visualization, image processing, spatial analysis and database software, have democratized and
greatly expanded the making
of maps. [] edit Geophysical Investigations (GP) Map Chiefly the
results of aeromagnetic and
(or) gravity surveys shown by contours. Area depicted may range
in size from a few square miles to an entire country. Single or multiple sheets. [] edit Hydrologic Investigations Atlas (HA) A wide range of hydrologic and hydrogeologic data of regional and national interest, such as streamflow, ground water, water quality, and extent of flooding. Various scales. Single or multiple sheets. [] edit Land Use and Land Cover (L) Map Various categories of land
use and cover, both artificial and
natural, for use by geographers, land-use planners, and others.
Planimetric maps at scales of 1:250,000 or 1:100,000 on a single sheet. Comparing Green Maps All Green Mapmakers share the same Icon language, but our diverse network uses different approaches to produce
their Green Maps. Here you can explore the differences in design, themes, technology and more. Notice the different kinds of "base" (underlying) maps, color
schemes and ways of using the Green Map Icons. The weak representations of the cognitive environment for movement space in current accessibility measures,
pointed out by for example Kwan et al, can be reinforced by the concept of the axial line, developed by Hillier et al. The axial line represents how you move and what you can see, which is by nature directional. space syntax [] citation needed [] citation needed [] citation needed [] citation needed Volume 3: (2007)Cartography in the European Renaissance Edited by David Woodward.     This
volume resumes the chronological treatment of mapping in Europe and the Mediterranean region begun in Volume One. A central theme is the nature of the transition from Medieval to Renaissance cartography. Does this transition constitute a
significant
revolution in mapmaking and map use, and does studying the cartographic history of this period contribute to a general understanding of such notions as "renaissance" and "modernity"? A series of interpretive essays will attempt to address these issues by placing cartography within the context of Renaissance society. The relationship of maps to Renaissance culture will be explored through the themes of continuity and change in the transition from the Middle Ages to the Renaissance; the visual, textual, and mathematical models influencing
mapping; and the changing nature of the Renaissance world view due to the influence of new scientific practices, travel writing, religious reformations,
transformations in geographical imagination, and encounters with various non-Europeans. You install a driver and control panel software, hook it up, and - if you
already have the latest GE 4
installed - you can use it right away (because they worked with Google to install the interface). onlybut they are working hard on adriver now released for Mac OS X I'll tell you right now: this device is my new favorite way to use Google Earth. With small pulls, pushes, twists, and lifts you can move around Google Earth like a cinematic movie cameraman. The SpaceNavigator doesn't replace your regular mouse. In fact, you can use both at the same time and this enhances your interaction. Amazingly, this product is very reasonably priced: for personal use, you can get (Personal
Edition) for only US$59, and for commercial use the (Standard Edition) is only $99. When you get this device, you can't help but be impressed with the quality and feel right out of the box. Images of early maps on the web only2,500 annotated See the about this listing of map images explanatory note (click for an argument that many web images serve here no useful purposeand also for examples of
imaginative uses of online technology) This page was created on 4 February
2001 (as a single page) and
split into twelve separate pages in January 2003 Last updates 1 December 2008 (and, indeed, across the entire site).You can search across in the Web Images sectionall the pages powered by , enabling every place-name to be easily read - search for:high resolutionhigh res. medium resolution, enabling some names to be read but not the smaller ones low resolution, with almost all the names illegible Lexicographic evidence also suggests that it dates from the latter half of the 14th century. It is, however, believed that the map is based on an
earlier version, made around 1280.
[1] Edward III
Edward I [4] city wall Coventry [4] Sheppey Queenborough [1] [1] [2] The map's authorship is also unknown. It is thought that much of the information about the map was gained from either one or more men who travelled around Great Britain as part of Edward I's military expeditions into and . The areas of the map's fringe with the most accurate detail often correspond with those areas in which Edward's troops were present. In these ways, all maps are estimations, generalizations, and interpretations of true geographic conditions. Brief History of Maps and Cartography ES 551 --
James S. Aber What is a Map? Old maps provide much information about what was known in times past, as well as the philosophy and cultural basis of the map, which were often much different from modern cartography.
Maps are one means by which
scientists distribute their ideas and pass them on to future generations (Merriam 1996). The book challenges the reader to engage and to think. It promotes creativity. It is packed with
examples to demonstrate why maps are important." Peter Keller, 57, Spring 2007
"...opens the door to the thinking that goes into the argument the map will hopefully reveal, and therefore, necessitates a critique of the data and methodology
that will be distilled in the map." A representation of the earth’s surface on a reduced scale. A representation usually on a flat medium of all or a portion of the earth or other
celestial body, showing the relative size and position of
features to some given scale or projection; also, a representation of all or part of the celestial sphere. The representation of a flat surface of all or part of the earth’s surface, to show physical, political or other features, each point on the
diagram corresponding to a geographic position according to a definite scale or projection. Calendar of Map Events About This Calendar This calendar lists map- and
cartography-related exhibitions, conferences, and other public events. Submissions are welcome; to submit an event for the calendar, . I can’t list art and other exhibitions, though, because they can go on for months and clutter up the calendar as a result. contact me The calendar is not meant to replace or to compete with established cartography calendars, such as John W. Doktor’s and , or Tony Campbell’s . What it does do, however, is provide a calendar that can be subscribed to electronically, in or formats. Map of . 1683. French version Peru Map of . 1683. Das K nigreich Perou Peru Historical map of by . Ca. 1720 Peru Herman Moll Historical map of by Emanuel Bowen. Ca. 1750 Peru Historical map of by Benard. Ca. 1750
Peru Historical map of by Rigobert Bonne. Ca.
1780 Peru Historical map of South America by Diogo Homem. Ca 1558 Leo Belgicus - map of the Low Countries (1611) Historical map of the Bay of Baj (1888) Major portions of Volume Three relate the thematic and contextual issues laid out in the
interpretive essays to the various national contexts of Renaissance terrestrial mapping. A brief introduction will provide an overview of the national boundaries
in place during the time period and will also address the reasons for adopting a national approach to Renaissance cartography. Later essays will discuss the cartographic endeavors of the Italian States, Portugal, Spain, the German
States, the Low Countries, France, the British Isles, Scandinavia, Eastern Europe, and Russia. These essays comprise a section we refer to as "national traditions," and they will provide the particulars of map production and map use that complement the thematic and generalized approach laid out in the first part of the volume. The national traditions essays will constitute a thorough bibliographical account of the rich cartographic production of Renaissance Europe. Web The History of Cartography in a Nutshell , an astonishing article by Professor Vladimiro Valerio. From the
introductory editor’s note: “About five years ago Professor Valerio was asked to prepare a short article on the history of
cartography for a multimedia presentation by the Istituto e Museo di Storia della Scienza of Florence. He was astounded to learn that his article could only be thirteen lines long, but he nonetheless complied. The
following is a translation of that article.” Mind you, there are 22 endnotes, with links to map images. Via . The History of Cartography in a Nutshell single-paragraph MapHist Learn how to take data from your GPS, map it into Google Earth, and share it with friends or the world. Learn when new releases of Google Earth come out, hear about new technologies and features, or check out the links
to dozens of other Google Earth web sites. When I first saw Google Earth I had the same feeling I had when Mosaic (the first real graphical web browser) was
released in 1993. All sorts of amazing things are going to happen because of Google Earth. And, amazing things have already happened (just read this blog to see some of them). More amazing things are yet to come. My intent is to provide content which will be interesting to both new and experienced users of Google Earth. shows that neither map users or map creators are passive, merely accepting or purveying reality; they are, instead, actively engaged in a vital process of shaping our understanding of nature in all its complexity. Map users have a critical responsibility, the power to accept, reject, or counter-argue with the maps they encounter. Map creators have creative responsibility, the power to build and finesse
their arguments, marshalling data and design for broader
goals of understanding and communicating truths about the world. Rethinking how maps work in terms of propositional logic, with its 2000-year history and vast methodological and theoretical foundation, promises to
be one of the most
profound advances in cartographic theory in decades, and shows the way in a captivating manner.The Natures of MapsThe Natures of MapsThe Natures of Maps However,
in areas where the bedrock is overlain by a significantly thick burden of , , deposits, or other important feature, these are shown instead. contour lines, lines, strike and dip symbols, are represented with various symbols as indicated by the map key. Whereas topographic maps are produced by the in conjunction with the states, geologic maps are
usually produced by the individual . There are
almost no geologic map resources for some states, while a few states, such as , are extensively mapped geologically. United States topographic map geologic unit
bedrock rock unconsolidated till terrace deposits loess Stratigraphic fault United States Geological Survey states Kentucky [] edit United Kingdom In the the term is used. The UK and have been extensively mapped by the since 1835; a separate Geological Survey of Northern Ireland (drawing on BGS staff) has operated since 1947. access the Atlas of Canada Web site navigate the Atlas of Canada Web site with some confidence locate geographic names of places and physical features in Canada compare online atlases with in-print atlases find thematic maps in the section and experience interactive and non-interactive mapsExplore Our Maps find specific information about Canada using the tool for interactive mapsGet Info from Map use
the section to explore historical mapsMap Archives find
specific facts about
Canada using the sectionFacts About
Canada test students’ knowledge about Canada using the interactive quizzes Lesson Outline Introduction Teacher Activity A delineation of the earth or any part of it. A picture drawn on a flat piece of paper of a portion of the earth’s surface and giving a similar view of the earth to that presented to an observer in the car of a balloon floating in the air. A reproduction or picture of some portion
of the earth’s surface differing materially from an ordinary
picture
for two reasons: in a map objects are represented as they would appear if seen from a great height, such as would be obtained by an observer in an aeroplane;
everything on a map must either be named or marked with a distinguishing
symbol. Mapperz
notes that Virtual Earth’s
bird’s-eye view is now available on Windows Mobile 6 devices; this is apparently the URL (I can’t tell; I don’t have a compatible device)…. » Posted on Categories: , Google has announced a
transit layer for Google Maps. Stations have been visible before; this layer adds the lines. It’s available for a total of 58 cities so far; I imagine Londoners used to the Beck diagram will have… » Posted on Categories: , Google vs. MapQuest: Search Results Boosting Map Traffic? Google Maps’s traffic is rapidly closing in on MapQuest, and a MapQuest executive is alleging that it’s because Google Maps gets favourable placements from Google search results, Investor’s Business Daily reports. Oddens' Bookmarks is including an increasing
number of maps from early atlases and series [this page is concerned with only] so it is well worth checking if you are looking for a specific early map [though note that this site is no
longer being maintained]. For further details about quality see ; and for map
images issued in CD-ROM form, as slide sets, etc., see Boudewijn Meijer's pagesinglesites there About the listing of early map image sites MapRef Note that at present, many of the altitude ranges are incomplete or provisional and further
information may well extend these considerably. Flowering time Worldwide distribution For each family, genus and species, the total worldwide number of genera and/or species is given, together with a brief summary of the worldwide distribution. This information has been extracted from various sources, often either from FZ or from Mabberley (1997). Zimbabwe distribution In Flora
Zambesiaca, Zimbabwe was divided into 5 divisions based on groupings of
administrative districts.