Reviews, emails, notes and suggestion.   "Hello! I want to
thank you for maintaining your Rincon
site.  It has been very helpful to me
over the years! I go to the
Horned Dorset every year in February,
and your site has been helpful in exploring the area and finding new things to do." -Katharine McGregor "LOVE THE SITE...and what a surprise this morning when looking at the pix in
'Rincon Today' to find one entitled a picture of my
wife Caroline standing beside a green
boat with me taking a
picture...Millan's Boat is in the background.  We do
remember someone taking pictures but
details are history!...7
years ago we were going on a cruise out of San Juan and felt we (and another couple, also from Winnipeg) would like to spend a week or so on the island prior to the cruise...(at this time our travel agent just threw her hands up and said, "You are on your own - I
know very little etc. etc.")...and then
found Casa Serena, a five
minute walk down the beach which we love. 2004 will be our fifth year there; another glorious 5 weeks of sun, fun, adventure, and the renewal of wonderful friendships we have established over the years."Art Imitates Life at Barrero Beach...-Jerry & Caroline Lenover, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada Swim in the warm ocean waters while pelicans fly over the horizon. Take pleasure in the delightful atmosphere of our private garden while enjoying the Caribbean Breeze and Sun by our swimming pool. is Rincon's newest location to relax and enjoy the beauty and spectacular sunsets of Corcega Beach.The Pineapple Inn     offers rooms at economic prices. Rooms are equipped with queen size beds, air conditioning, cable TV. Only 3 blocks from the beach and within walking distance to many restaurants, bars, grocery stores and more. If your traveling on a budget, we are the place for you.Rincon Inn     offers modern minimalist suites with wood floors and marble baths. A rooftop terrace offers scenic views of Rincon's beaches and is the perfect place to enjoy a
glass of wine while
watching the night sky. The
four suites accommodate up to sixteen guests, making it perfect for groups traveling together.Suites at 413     Rincon's newest and freshest restaurant right next to the marina. Come experience home-style, international cuisine for lunch and dinner in a tropical outdoor setting. The perfect place for the whole family to enjoy with happy hour as well as daily food and drink specials. Don't miss the Sunday pig roast, style. Shipwreck Bar & Grill   Enjoy burgers, wraps, traditional Puerto Rican cuisine, fresh fish and seafood. Also enjoy a fresh
fruit drink or tropical
cocktail from the Tamboo Tavern.Tamboo
Seaside Grill     is dining at
sea, in a Sorrento-tiled intimate space with
wooden louvers cutting
the glare of the ocean, or outside on
the gravel terrace under the stars.
Enjoying breakfast and light lunches on the open verandah adjoining the lobby and bar is an informal, breezy experience.The Blue Room     Tis a cool pool bar, delicious bistro and your sushi source in Rincon. Spend your Rincon nights with us and enjoy great food, cool beverages, plus lively music and conversation.he Rum Shack By '68, The Beatles had instilled change in the youth of Rincon, but the arrival of those youngsters shifted that change into light speed.  Once the event was over and all the visitors returned to their lives, the Rincon they left behind would never be the same. As a student in the
capital city of San Juan, I had kept my boring hometown somewhat of a secret. offers a wide variety of fresh fish, lobster and local flavor at moderate prices. The best (seafood turnovers) are made here. We also offer a private dining room and our Happy Hour Bar is a local favorite.Rincon
Tropicalempanadillas     The at Casa Verde is a
ree-housestyle open air eatery. Recently renovated by its new owners, it now offers delicious food and great drinks. Our new website is coming soon. Rock Bottom Bar & Grill     offers unique and creative Caribbean-Asian Fusion cuisine that combines bold flavors from around the world. Enjoy fine dining in our tropical terrace, with wonderful hillside and ocean views, or in our lush tropical garden. We also host lovely Caribbean Weddings, providing all services, including lodging.Smilin' Joe's   * We recycle only from allowed beaches; sea glass, shells, bamboo, drift wood and other allowed items from the ocean. * We follow the guide lines set forth by Puerto Rico's different government agencies with regard to what is allowed to be collected. For instance it has been discovered that Sea Fans are the only coral that when dies, continues to feed the local marine Eco system, because of this artisans are no longer allowed to use them for art or in artwork. The Coral Sea Fan is now a protected species.  Both vacationers and artists are subject to fines and confiscation of the item, even if in small amounts. * Every collection trip also includes a trash pick up, in an effort to keep our beaches cleaner. * Our artists donate packaging materials from the parcels they receive year round, keeping our over all  cost lower and this planet a little greener. * We believe in
the ship it once concept and it is why
we work with the on-line sources that we do, your prints and merchandise, come shipped directly from either the supplier or
manufacturer. The
interior is designer-decorated and includes heirloom
antiques and historic photos of Old Rincon. Amapola House offers four elegant bedrooms, three spacious bathrooms, a Starlight Veranda and a Sunset Terrace with a jumbo spa tub that overlooks a vast nature preserve and the sea.  Just minutes from pristine and golden Sandy Beach, this elegant Villa can easily accommodate an entire family  or group of up to eight persons. Amapola House  is offering aOcean View Villa$200Welcome Pack is the oldest and best Dive Center in Rincon. It is the only Dive Center that has its own boat in Rincon. Our Dive Masters are the most experienced and have taught most of the other Rincon dive operators. Go with the best,   Taino DiversDive Rincon, Dive Taino!     give you the  opportunity to see Rincon from its clear sky. Safely fly over the tranquil and crystal clear off-shore waters. View Rincon's beaches, the town and its and country side. This is a must-do activity for all!    Flying Fish Parasail   is a neighborhood coffeehouse in Rincon, Puerto Rico passionately committed to serving the . Sit back, sip a
strong brew or an ice-cold smoothie and connect, collaborate and let the
ideas flow. You can get some of
that too. Banana Dang best
coffee and healthiest banana smoothies
Need Wi-Fi or computer access?     offers exciting vibrant cuisine
prepared especially for you by our chef
Rosa. Our Bar offers the best in mixed drinks and
tropical cocktails. On Sundays, we
roast a pig and have a tropical party.Bunger's Bar & Grill     specializes in serving the best whole fresh Caribbean Lobster, fresh Red Snapper and fresh Mahi Mahi filet, along with in-season fresh Grouper and the catch of the day.If fresh seafood is of your liking, then is for you. This beachside eateryHarbor Restaurant     offers delicious seafood, steaks and local cuisine. We offer full breakfast, lunch and dinner menus. 429, k.3.7, between the Horned Dorset and the Lemon Tree. Trees hide the art gallery on the map. Rincon Puerto Rico is developing  an art colony with 6 art galleries/Shops.  Some easier to find than others.  All are different.  They're a sign of the many  artist living in this tropical island. The Secret Garden has a
fraction, as we're limited by wall
space.  Rincon Puerto  Rico Fine Art
Gallery 787-823-4758 n   The
Secret Garden  features
paintings, photography and jewelry.I Rincon
Puerto Rico, Rincon is
home to many artists from the states. 
Visiting Puerto Rico has a
way of renewing your senses.  Living in
Rincon Puerto Rico revives  your soul.  Continual eye candy
underwater, in the mountains, or just walking along the beach flirts with your senses.  Hot News Mention Puerto Ricos west coast diving and local divers go misty eyed and lapse into Spanish as a language rich in evocative vocabulary. It is the islands of Mona and Desecheo that are responsible for this passionate response. Of these two gems, one is readily accessible the other almost completely inaccessible. To start with the best and the worst news, Mona Island is 45 miles west of Puerto Rico (or a 6-hour ride in most dive boats) so has to be organised as a 2- or 3-day camping excursion, for which a permit has to be obtained. An excellent night excursion, especially on nights wth no moon. Boats take visitors from the town of “La Parguera” to the Bio Luminescent bay to the east. One of the few bio luminescent bays in the world due to it’s rare and delicate ecological make up. Ponce Museum of Art - 45 miles Puerto Rico’s premier Art Museum built by the Ferré family. A collection of classic, historical and contempory art much of which features
Puerto Rican talent. A must see for art lovers. Located on Ave. Ungourdly
Art Plates, prints, wooden
decorative objects.
Anything else I feel like painting. Like most people, I get bored with my job. If I said I was thrilled with every stroke of the paintbrush I'd be lying. Most times that's true, but every once and awhile I feel the need to paint on something other than gourds. You must be at least 14 years old. If under 18, you must obtain parent or guardian signature and send in a copy of your Birth Certificate. The Organizing Committee reserves the right to only admit qualified participants, who are in good health and who fully abide by the rules of the event. Mail with registration fee (check or money order) to:  TRIALO RINCOE P.O. BOX 512 RINCON, PUERTO RICO  00677 Contact Us Event Directors:Albert Morales, Samuel Schez TechnicalDirectors: Albert
Morales,Samuel Schez,gel Caro, Juan Gonzez Thanks again, seeing those pictures, Oh, my God!, brought tears to my eyes.  I hope to visit Rincon in the near future. Meanwhile, keep me posted about the good news and the beauty of my town." -Yolanda Noriega "The website is looking better all the time.  We bought a house in Rincon at Corcega beach a little over two years ago and come down every chance we get." -Garry Howard "I was feeling a little homesick today, and it sure was great to see your site.  It made me feel like home.  I truly believe
that Rincon is the most beautiful municipality that Puerto Rico has to
offer.  It's truly a relaxation corner.  Thanks so much for
giving me a little piece of home.  I
live in the north New Jersey countryside and you better believe that in my living room sits a wonderful sunset picture with the words "Rincon, Puerto Rico" under it.  I'm proud to be from Rincon!"
Relax and view spectacular sunsets
from the outdoor deck overlooking the sea. Play, swim, surf
or dine at nearby Sandy Beach.     Casa
Mae  is a newly-constructed 4
bedroom, 3 bathroom vacation
home located in in the Puntas section of Rincon. The house is located on a hill facing west so you can enjoy beautiful sunsets while sitting on your own private covered balcony or rooftop terrace. Local beaches are located less than a half mile from the property.     Casa Margaritais a large and comfortable vacation villa, minutes away from Sea Beach. This spacious and airy villa offers comfort and privacy, steps away from the best Rincon restaurants and beach bars. After a day at the beach,
light up the grill and jump in the
pool, as another day in Paradise turns into a tropical starlight evening.     Casa Serena is an informal beach house with 2 apartments, each with 2 bedrooms, 2 baths, a living area with fully equipped kitchen and a 15 foot
covered patio facing our quiet
Caribbean beach. Great for 2 -
4 people in each. Lovely garden, lovely beach. Come and relax and watch the dolphins and whales pass by.    Blue Boy Innis a elegant B & B, a short walk from the best beaches in the Caribbean. Located in beautiful Rincon, Puerto Rico, well-known for surfing, diving and spectacular sunsets, Blue Boy Inn offers wonderful Caribbean accommodations with a traditional European-style bed and breakfast service. Your experience at Blue Boy Inn will be more than a simple stay with a loved one, it will be an  intimate, romantic experience that you will always remember.     is located in the heart of Rincon, Puerto Rico right across the street from Sandy Beach. Our goal at Casa Verde is to provide you with excellent accommodations, service and information guaranteeing your enjoyment while visiting Rincon, Puerto Rico.Casa Verde Guest House     offers an oceanfront vacation, in front of of Puerto Rico's best swimming and snorkeling beach.Coconut Palms From our huge oceanside
verandah, you can view the best sunsets
in Rincon. Coconut Palms is a great place to host weddings, corporate team-building seminars, and large parties.     We have compiled a list of
traditional events that are celebrated year-round in our area. For driving instructions and date confirmations, we recommend that you consult with our concierge. We have also provided below a list of telephone numbers of each town’s
Tourism Offices. Have fun! Patron Saint
Festivals Held in honor of the patron saints of island towns and cities, the “fiestas patronales” are popular annual festivities that take place in the town squares and include processions, games,
rides, musical shows, and regional
foods. Contact the Puerto Rico Tourism
Company at La Casita Tourism
Information Center in Old San Juan (787-722-1709) for information about current festivals. Surfing There are numerous world-class surfing spots in the Rincón/Isabela Area. Peak season is October through April, however virtually all year round, waves are breaking somewhere in Puerto Rico! Whale Watching Humpback whales may be seen in the winter from the observation park at the Rincón Lighthouse. The peek season is February, though the whales have been spotted from late December through late March. Just ask around the marina or the Lighthouse. In
peak season, you may see them a few hundred meters off the Lighthouse. January Three King’s Day Traditional gift giving day Between December and April, we offer all-inclusive packages for adults.Our goal is to provide our students with the best surfing experience
ever!     For
the past 26 years, the running of the has taken place on the second Sunday in June. Participate in this
exciting international event,
which can be best
described as a test of the body and a
triumph of the spirit. Rincon
Triathlon      * We
have freely aided Rincon's Animal Rescue Foundation, Surf-Rider Foundation, Local School Art Programs and
Earth Day just to name a few. * Our future humanitarian
efforts will be going to: the
Farmer's Market in Rincon and
expanding the Art opportunities for
local artists. Images of our
community work coming soon Stained Glass
Orchid Garden, is comprised of four
stretched canvases. The edges are
textured and finished (in black, which
looks striking), so no frames are necessary. Each comes ready to hang. Acrylic gouache. Each canvas is 6" square, and since no
framing is necessary they can fit in tight spaces. SOLD These paintings can be arranged vertically, horizontally, diagonally or in a sqaure, as shown This is La Parguera, my home in Puerto Rico. Colorful casetas line the shore, while
the dolphins swim offshore. It's true...
I watch them many mornings. The porthole border is faux-verdigris, with a matching plate stand (included).
Acrylic gouache on ceramic. Not for food. 9" Plate with Stand $165.00   When I originally taught myself to paint it was in a folk art style from Norway called Rosemaling. I've updated the more somber, traditional colors to include the vivid Caribbean colors which surround me. Mats not included. Floral Folk ArtPrint I 10" x 12 " Floral Folk ArtPrint II 10" x 12"$25.00 Another Telemark style of folk art. A riot of jewel-tones are set off with a soft plum mat. Acrylic gouache
on canvas in a clear
glass, rosewood frame.
16" x 18 Artistic Invisions Humpback Whales pass by Puerto Rico on their annual migration. See Diving Facilities section in the book for stores willing and able to organise trips to Mona.Mona Island: Perhaps not as staggeringly beautiful as Mona but with all the charm of an uninhabited
island, Desecheo is the other west
coast gem but only a mere
12 miles away, and accessible almost any day. Depending on the size of the dive boat and where it is located, the journey will take from 30 minutes to one and a half-hours.Desecheo Island: It is easy to neglect the west coast dive sites closer to land, but they are worthy of mention too. There are some very good beach dives (sites 95 and 96) and offshore reef dives off Mayaguez and Cabo Rojo. They feature dramatic open-plan living, kitchen and dining areas with stunning views of the sea.     Tres Amigos Beach Houseis a unique wooden twelve-sided beach house that sits on a quarter acre of land set back 100 yards from the Caribbean. Canopied by Almond, Mango and Mahogany trees, one gets the feeling of being in a tree house...but with all the connivances of a contemporary home with awesome views. The entire side of the house is a large screened lanai open to the sunsets, the surf, the Caribbean Trade Winds (the 'trades'), and in season, the migrating whales.  Art lovers will appreciate the quality these works.  Erica Espaillat creates images with oil paints, and their perfection is hard to discern from a photograph. Todd Davis: a master photographer, his underwater scenes delight your senses.  JA Soto our Puerto Rican Van Gogh, carves images with paint knife. The Secret Garden is paces from the beachfront, and next to a creek coming down from the mountains.   
...'the jewel of the Puerto
Rican travel experience'- Frommer's March 10, 2006 Restaurants & Catering in Rinc n, Puerto Rico No matter where you stay in Rincon, there are great restaurants and beach bars are just a short drive away! Since you can easily drive from The ', along the , pass through and reach Rincon's in less than 10 minutes - you'll want to discover of the restaurants and beach bars in Rincon! Fun Coast' of Puntas Sunset Coast Downtown Rincon Caribbean Coast Since Rincon is a small tourist-oriented town, restaurant schedules may change depending on local events and how many people are visiting our corner of Puerto Rico.  November through April is high season for sunsets, surfing and whale watching. July is the most popular month for Puerto Rican and other Caribbean residents to fill the restaurants to overflowing. Check with each restaurant for schedules during your visit to Rincon! To help you plan your trip to Rinc n, we've organized our accommodations, restaurants and other listings by their location within the town of Rinc
n.  You'll want to explore all of Rincon, but this list will help you plan your visit based on the area that best suits your personality and needs. We offer 6 guest rooms, which accommodate up to 14 people and your stay includes breakfast. You can rent a room, or the entire Villa. We offer a swimming pool, beautiful ocean views, plenty of parking and tranquility. Our game room has ping pong, pool table, darts, board games and work-out equipment.Guest Villa     offers tropical elegance at water's edge of the most fabulous beach in Puerto Rico. Our classic beachfront bed & breakfast accommodations offer comfort
and elegance in a casual
setting. We offer a variety of
rooms and apartments. Each unit
was designed to provide awesome beach views and intimate settings. Our rooms
and suites provide the old-world charm of
Rincon, in a private setting, with your own swimming pool and tropical garden. Minnow: marooned in paradise, but having enough fun to not worry much about it. Maybe that why the first celebration of the fortieth anniversary of the 8 contest happened in California.  The changes since 8 are
self-evident to those that visit our town
and view the pages of . Of course, as in every ocean paradise, there always the other side of the coin, albeit not as tarnished as the ones in other beach towns. Rincon is a
great place to live in and
visit and though it remains
misunderstood as a heap destinationby the travel industry, I like to say that Rincon is natural and authentic. Rincon is for those that find it, love it, to stay or return.Rincon-PR.com "Just returned from another two plus weeks in Rincon and we can't wait to return.  In fact, we have already made plans to return - which will be our sixth trip.  WE LOVE IT!  The beaches, the people, the restaurants, the great bakeries and of course, the Horned Dorset Primavera." -Abe & Andi Morris  
Send us your feedback about Rincon,
Check Availability & Make
Reservations.