The good news is that thousands of animal lovers (but not enough) have heard what we've been saying. Canine Health Concern members around the world use real food as Nature's supreme disease preventative, eschewing processed pet food, and minimise the vaccine risk. Some of us, myself included, have chosen not to vaccinate our pets at all. Our reward is healthy and long-lived dogs. It has taken but one paragraph to tell you the good and simple news. BS in Veterinary Medicine with High Honors -- 1996 DVM with High Honors -- 1999 Texas A&M University -- Rotating internship in Small Animal Medicine and Surgery -- 1999-2000 Louisiana State University -- Residency in
Medical Oncology -- 2000-2002 Board Certification
Medical Oncologyfocus on leukemias and lymphomas in dogs and cats Clinical trails evaluating novel antitumor strategies in client-owned pets For me, it explains why the vaccine process is inherently questionable. Gary was learning about inflammation as part of his studies when he struck upon a theory so extraordinary that it could have implications for the treatment of almost every inflammatory disease - including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, rheumatoid arthritis and even HIV and AIDS. Gary's theory questions the received wisdom that when a person gets ill, the inflammation that occurs around the infected area helps it to heal. Learn more about Blue Buffalo pet food . To make pet parents aware of the of canine and feline cancer warning signs To let them know about ways they can help minimize their pet's cancer risk To and provide grants to leading institutions studying ways to combat and cure pet cancer raise money here Spreadng The Word The Blue
Buffalo Foundation knows the importance of getting the word out about dog and cat cancer. Read what we have to say. Click Here to visit the Donation Options Page Every donation, no matter how big or small, will help dogs get the care they need - so please, donate what you can...  To learn more about the "Dog Cancer Ride Across America" and the charities it supports, click on the navigation links on the left side of this page or click on the map below to visit the...   FDA is advising consumers who choose to feed their dogs chicken jerky products to watch their dogs closely for any or all of the following signs which may occur within hours to days of feeding the product: decreased appetite, although some may continue to consume the treats to the exclusion of other foods; decreased activity; vomiting; diarrhea, sometimes with blood; and increased water consumption and/or increased urination. BONE MARROW: If the cancer were confined to the bone marrow, we would call this leukemia. The signs that we see
in dogs are usually related to decreased numbers of normal cells (such as red blood cells which carry oxygen, white blood cells that fight infection and platelets that help with clotting) which are made in the bone marrow. Anemia, infections and bleeding are common problems. TOP Smrkovski OA, , Smith SH, LeBlanc CJ, Adams WH, Tobias KM. Carcinoma ex Pleomorphic Adenoma within the Submandibular Salivary Gland of a Dog. Veterinary Pathology 2006; 43:3: 374-377.LeBlanc AK* Flory AB, . Review: The Role of Cyclooxygenase in Carcinogenesis and
Anticancer Therapy. Compendium on Continuing Education for the Practicing Veterinarian 2005, 25 (6): 616-627.LeBlanc AK* , LaDue TL, Turrell JM, Klein MK. Unexpected Toxicity Following Use of Gemcitabine as a Radiosensitizer in Head and Neck Carcinomas: A VRTOG Pilot Study. FDA believes the continued trend of consumer complaints coupled with the information obtained from Australia warrants an additional reminder and animal health notification. Chicken jerky products should not be substituted for a balanced diet and are intended to be used occasionally and in small quantities. Owners of small dogs must be especially careful to limit the amount of these products.
When our family member Blue was affected by canine cancer, we wanted to do something about it. So in 2003 The Blue Buffalo Foundation for Cancer Research was founded to accomplish several important goals: The Foundation itself identifies the most promising institutions and distributes the funds generated by the Pet Cancer Awareness (PCA) program.