The Columbia Basin geologic province covers about 50,000 square miles of what is now southeastern Washington and adjacent parts of Idaho and Oregon. The Basin
is
underlain by vast lava flows of the
Columbia River Basalt Group. Today, those flows and the
ground surface above them slope toward the Pasco Basin, where two large rivers, the Snake and the Yakima, enter the Columbia.
Coordinate and lead regional
efforts to test, demonstrate,
and deploy new and emerging
technologies. Conduct forums focusing for
prevention and emergency
preparedness, response, and recovery. Provide information and expertise
on new and emerging technologies,
including chem-bio detection, analysis, and forensics; radiological detection; information analytics; explosives
detection; and situational awareness. Regional Homeland Security Summit Comprehensive
life insurance, healthcare, vision, and dental coverage for
all employees and their dependents Beginning two weeks of
paid vacation per year, with the opportunity to accrue up to a maximum of five weeks Ten holidays per calendar year, including two personal floating holidays Personal sick time for care of immediate family, including domestic
partners Business casual dress and flexible work hours, including
consideration for alternate
work schedules (macro
properties of materials and objects, for example, object size and
shape, nondestructive material/component evaluation, radar cross-section, geographic characterization with remote sensing, mechanical system operational diagnostics) macro property measurement PNNL and control capabilities enable the integration of sensors, power, signal processing and conditioning, I/O, and user interface functions to provide deliverables ranging from subsystems to turn-key instruments and equipment systems. Measure of temperature at a in the atmosphere is a
physical measurement (an individual sensor can be used) while measuring the temperature profile in a column of air above a test site is a macro-property measurement which may use a series of temperature sensors or an optical
method using remote lasers and detection systemspoint Detection and
characterization of cracks in a metal pipe is a macro-property
measurement which may
use an electromagnetic, acoustic, or
ultrasonic probe and specialized data
acquisition and analysis methods This suite of tools allows
the user to rapidly discover
hidden information relationships by reading only pertinent documents.
IN-SPIRE™ has been used to explore technical and
patent literature, marketing and business documents, web data, accident and
safety reports, newswire feeds
and message traffic, and more. It has applications in many
areas, including information analysis, strategic planning, and medical research. The goal of IN-SPIRE™ is to: Smarr is Principal Investigator on the NSF OptIPuter LambdaGrid project, the Moore Foundation CAMERA marine microbial metagenomics project, and is Co-PI on the NSF GreenLight Major Research Instrumentation project. As founding director of the National Center for Supercomputing Applications and the National Computational Science Alliance, Smarr has driven major contributions to the development of the national information infrastructure: the Internet, the Web, the
emerging Grid, telepresence, and scientific visualization. From cultivating relationships with our community to building advocacy within the region, the Community and Regional Outreach staff provides the resources and programs to ensure that PNNL is an asset to the northwest region and the local community. The Community and Regional
Outreach organization builds mutually beneficial relationships and implements
strategies to promote economic vitality,
generate goodwill and advocacy
for the laboratory, the community and our regional neighbors. Department of
Energy sites. Biomolecular Mechanisms Controlling Metal and Radionuclide
Transformations in Anaeromyxobacter dehalogenans
Anaeromyxobacter dehalogenans –
Researchers are studying many
aspects of the biotransformation of plutonium (Pu) and
Pu-ethylenediaminetetraacetate
(Pu-EDTA) under various anaerobic conditions.
By understanding these processes better, researchers can assess, model,
and design approaches to stop Pu transport in
groundwater at U.S. Department of Energy sites. Find Jobs
Create an and resume. applicant profile Use our job search agent to receive email
notifications of new PNNL job openings. University Recruiting
and Internships For graduate and post doc opportunities,
visit our page. university recruiting For undergraduate internships and other educational programs, read about
PNNL's Programs. Science and
Engineering Education
Working at PNNL Learn about
our competitive . compensation and benefits MeDICi makes it faster and less expensive
to build scientific
workflows in many science domains by providing a more
scalable, flexible workflow environment that promotes ease of use for scientists and that can be
easily
modified and scaled to meet future research
needs. MeDICi is already in use for a range of
applications at PNNL, including biological workflows,
groundwater
simulations, video processing, and satellite
data processing. Integrated systems are often required for applications that involve robust measurement
methods, automated data acquisition, and effective process monitoring and
control. We routinely perform system integration
functions to ensure that complex systems are designed, effectively reviewed at the design stage, fabricated and
assembled, tested and validated, and
delivered to the client. The extensible framework will
support the creation and execution of workflows for data preparation, model execution on a variety of compute resources, and model validation. Records of workflow executions and resultant data will be tracked. A variety of existing visualization and analysis tools, including parallel capable tools, will be integrated into the framework and accessible from workflows or for use in later analyses. Unfortunately, of the few written records left by the early explorers, traders and trappers regarding the original, pristine condition, those that have survived are sparse indeed. Source The text contained within the following links is taken from Chapter 1 of the book "Shrub-steppe: Balance
and Change in a Semi-arid
Terrestrial Ecosystem", W. H. Rickard, L. E. Rogers, B. E. Vaughan and S. F.
Contacts About Us Pacific Northwest National Laboratory's
interactive visual analytics provide new ways to ask questions and get
answers,
an essential element of new
discoveries. Working Solutions With more than
10 years of visual analytics experience in research, engineering and product
development, PNNL's efforts in visual information analysis spans from basic research to development of innovative tools and technologies.