The South Africans
expelled German forces and gained control of the former German colony. (See German South-West Africa in World War I.) Namibia A military expedition under General Jan Smuts was dispatched to German East Africa (later known as Tanganyika and now known as ). The objective was to fight German
forces in that colony and to try to capture the elusive German General von Lettow-Vorbeck. is a country located on the southern tip of . It shares borders with , , , , , and (an independent enclave surrounded by South Africa). The and oceans make up a 1,550 mile coastline along the southern border of the country. South Africa Africa Namibia Botswana Zimbabwe Mozambique Swaziland Lesotho Atlantic Indian The origins of modern-day South Africa date back to 1652 when traders landed at the southern tip of the
continent of and established a stopover point on the spice route between Europe and the East. This stopover point founded the
city of . Dutch Africa Cape Town After the seized the in 1806, many of the Dutch settlers or Boers founded their own
republics in the north. Following more than two decades of non-engagement in South Africa, the World Bank resumed activities in the early 1990s through a comprehensive program of economic policy advice and capacity building. Starting in the mid 1990s, the Bank continued its program of policy advice and technical
assistance, and also began to provide funds for development projects. Although there have only been two loans funded by the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) (the 1997 Industrial Competitiveness and Job Creation Project, for US$24.5 million, and the 2002 Municipal Financial Management Technical Assistance Project, for US$15 million), several
environmentally
focused
projects totalling nearly US$40 million  have been funded by the Global Environment Facility (GEF). If you are invited to a South African's house:
. Arrive on time if invited to
dinner. . Contact the hostess ahead of time to see if she would like you to bring a dish. . Wear casual clothes. This may include jeans or pressed
shorts. It is a good idea to check with
the hosts in advance. . In Johannesburg, casual is dressier than in other parts of the country. Do not wear jeans or shorts unless you have spoken to the hosts. . Offer to help the hostess with the preparation or clearing up after a meal is served. Business Etiquette and Protocol
Relationships
& Communication . South Africans are transactional and do not need to establish long-standing personal relationships before conducting business. Monette, D, Sullivan, T, and DeJong, C. (1998). (4th ed).
Orlando, FL: Harcourt Brace & Company.Applied Social Research: Tool for the Human Services Munzondidya, J. (1999). . Unpublished seminar paper presented at the Historical Dimensions of Human Rights and Democracy Seminar, History Department, University of Zimbabwe. Harare, Zimbabwe.The evolution of Coloured identity in
Zimbabwe, 1890-1945 Nelson, J. (2003).
The role the Dutch Reformed Church
played in the Boulder, Colorado: Westview Press, 1988.A Future South Africa: Visions, Strategies, and Realities Bergh, J.S., and J.C. Visagie. . Durban: Butterworths, 1985.The Eastern Cape Frontier Zone, 1660-1980: A Cartographic Guide for Historical Research Beukes, Piet. . Cape Town: Human and Rousseau, 1994.The Religious Smuts Bickford-Smith, Vivian. "South African Urban History, Racial Segregation and the 'Unique' Case of Cape Town?" anarchists in Zambia In 1999, for a range of tactical reasons, the WSF was
dissolved, and is now succeeded
by two anarchist collectives,
the and . The two groups have recently co-produced , and write and publish a wide range of anarchist materials." Bikisha Media Collective Zabalaza Books Zabalaza: a southern African journal of revolutionary anarchism Organisations, Collectives & Publications A South African anarchist media project. Founded on the
revolutionary principles of class-struggle anarchism in October 1999, the Bikisha Media Collective has the following aims: Distributing anarchist literature, videos, and music Developing and publishing new anarchist works dealing with southern Africa We are NOT a political party or an anarchist political organisation, nor do we pretend to be. We are
just a project working towards the above goals. In , The National Party was voted into power and instituted a policy of - meaning . was a system of legalized racial segregation, legitimized and white nationalism. While the White minority enjoyed the highest standard of living in all of Africa, the Black majority remained disadvantaged by almost every standard including income, education, housing, and life expectancy. By the early the National Party government effectively negotiated itself out of power and the
first multi-racial elections in brought an official end to apartheid - ushering in black majority rule. 1948
apartheid separateness Apartheid racism 1990s 1994 Related Pages on Mahalo Anarchism, revolutionary syndicalism and anti-authoritarian movements in South Africa, Lesotho & Swaziland Latest News from South African anarchists South African anarchist statement on the WTC attacks The early years Anarchism and revolutionary
syndicalism in South Africa have a long history, although this history has been largely forgotten today. Anarchists and revolutionary syndicalists were in the forefront of socialist groups in early twentieth-century South Africa. They played a role in the Social Democratic Federation, founded in Cape Town in 1904,. In 1910, two revolutionary syndicalist groups were founded in Johannesburg, the and a section of the .Socialist Labour Party Industrial Workers
of the World (IWW) The (ISL), founded in 1915, was the largest and most important revolutionary socialist group in South Africa in the 1910s. Meanwhile, numbers of British immigrants increased rapidly in Cape Town, in the area east of the Cape Colony (present-day Eastern Cape Province),
in Natal and, after the discovery of and , in parts of the Transvaal, mainly around
present-day Gauteng. 1833 gold diamonds Difaqane and destruction Shaka Zulu Zulu The early 19th century saw a time of immense upheaval
relating to the military expansion of the . Sotho-speakers know this period as the (" forced migration"); while Zulu-speakers call it the
("crushing").
Zulu
kingdom difaqanemfecane