Urine tests may indicate
Fanconi syndrome (increased glucose). Although most dogs appear to recover, some reports to the FDA have involved dogs that have died. The FDA continues to actively investigate the problem. Many of the illnesses reported may be the result of causes other than eating chicken jerky. Veterinarians and consumers alike should report cases of animal illness associated with pet foods to the FDA Consumer Complaint Coordinator in their state. First, thank you for writing such an incredible resource for those of us who are owned by pets with cancer. My own Mango was just diagnosed with lymphoma and I have been searching desperately for information that will help me extend his life. Thanks so much for taking the time to put tegether the information
in "Help Your Dog Fight Cancer." However, where inflammatory
responses are concerned, the immune system
overreacts and causes unwanted effects such as allergies and other inflammatory conditions. Merck warns in its Manual that patients with, or from families with, B and/or T cell immunodeficiencies should not receive live-virus vaccines due to the risk of severe or fatal infection. Elsewhere, it lists features of B and T cell immunodeficiencies as food allergies, inhalant allergies, eczema, dermatitis, neurological deterioration and heart disease. Sparky's Book Shop! Helpful, interesting sites Perseus Foundation A good place to start in your search for answers. What is Cancer? - General information on types of animal cancer and treatments. Co-sponsor of "Sparky Fights Back" and arguably the best non-profit organization devoted to research to find treatments and cures for cancer in animals. They are also interested in discovering
more about similarities in human and animal cancers through their "comparative oncology" program.  Animal Cancer Foundation  occur in the breast tissue and are more common in unspayed, older female dogs. They are the most common type of tumor found in .Mammary gland tumors unspayed dogs are fairly common. Vomiting, diarrhea, weight loss, and abdominal enlargement can be signs of this type of cancer.Abdominal tumors are the second most common tumor in male dogs who are not neutered. Of course neutering completely eliminates this risk.Testicular tumors , Mauldin GE, Milner R, LaDue TL, Mauldin GN. Efficacy of C/B-OPP Chemotherapy for the Treatment of Relapsed Canine Lymphoma. Vet Comp Oncol 2006; 4 (1): 21-32.LeBlanc AK Smrkovski OA, , Smith SH, LeBlanc CJ, Adams WH, Tobias KM. Carcinoma ex Pleomorphic Adenoma within the Submandibular Salivary Gland of a Dog. Veterinary Pathology 2006; 43:3: 374-377.LeBlanc AK* Flory AB, . Review: The Role of Cyclooxygenase in Carcinogenesis and Anticancer
Therapy. While initial puppy and kitten vaccinations are required
and necessary, try to avoid automatically vaccinating every year. Speak with your veterinarian about spreading out the vaccinations and inoculate only those for diseases that are prevalent in your geographical area. It's also a good idea to check your pet's immunity with a blood titer test before vaccinating. If your veterinarian is not familiar with a lab that does titer testing, suggest that he or she contacts Antech Diagnostics for titer testing information (800-872-1001). Please consult with your own veterinary physician for confirmation of any diagnosis. Your pets life may depend on it. (Click on the awareness ribbon to easily navigate to the area you are interested in)                            OVERVIEW:* Lymphosarcoma (lymphoma) is the third most common cancer diagnosed in dogs. It is a cancer of lymphocytes (a type of blood cell) and lymphoid tissues. Contact A History of Hope When our family member Blue was affected by canine cancer, we wanted to do something about it. So in 2003 The Blue Buffalo Foundation for Cancer Research was founded to accomplish several important goals: The Foundation itself identifies the most promising institutions and distributes the funds generated by the Pet Cancer Awareness (PCA) program. The
BLUE Buffalo Foundation is very grateful for
your interest and help in finding a cure for
pet cancer. AND DOG COSTUME CONTEST! ALL BREEDS WELCOME !! Sponsored by the Ohio University-Proctorville Center & by Club Pet Pre-register and fax your pre-registration by July 24 to (304) 525-7861, or and mail your pre-registration by July 19 toRegistration 8 - 10:30 a.m. Parade begins at 11 a.m., July 26 at Pullman Square Dogs in costume will be judged for trophies!! Anophthalmos Leukemias Cellulitis, Orbital Meningioma, Sphenoid Wing Dacryoadenitis Mucormycosis Dermoid, Orbital Orbital Fracture, Apex Duane Syndrome Orbital Fracture, Floor Fistula, Carotid Cavernous Orbital Fracture, Medial Wall Glaucoma, Juvenile Orbital Fracture, Zygomatic Globe Retraction Ptosis, Adult Hemangioma, Cavernous Ptosis, Congenital Horner Syndrome Thyroid Ophthalmopathy [] edit Exophthalmos in dogs Main article: Eye proptosis Exophthalmos is commonly found in . It is a normal condition in (short nosed) dog breeds because of the shallow . What do you imagine was the advice of the AVMA Task Force, veterinary bodies and governments? "Carry on vaccinating until we find out why vaccines are killing cats, and which cats are most likely to die." In America, in an attempt to mitigate the problem, they're vaccinating cats in the tail or leg so they can amputate when cancer appears. Welcome to CHIC News Instructions for Updating Health History of dogs with DNA samples banked in the CHIC DNA Repository. CHIC is currently in the process of developing an online web-based application to allow owners to record any significant changes in the health history of their dogs that have DNA samples banked.  Until this application is implemented, please email us with any significant health updates.  Please include your name and contact information in the body of the email, as
well as what changes have been noted. We're sorry, but this discussion has just been closed to further replies. Tobacco: A Triple Threat to Dogs and Cats View full list.... It makes sense that second-hand smoke affects the health of our pets, but our furry friends suffer a triple-threat from tobacco. In addition to the obvious danger of lung cancer, dogs and cats lick the residual tar and nicotine
from their coats, which can cause mouth
and throat
cancers. FDA continues to receive complaints of dogs experiencing
illness that their owners or veterinarians associate with consumption of chicken jerky products. The chicken jerky products are imported to the U.S. from China. FDA issued a cautionary warning to consumers in September 2007. Australian news organizations report the University
of Sydney is also investigating an association between illness in dogs and the consumption of chicken jerky in Australia. See a list of common . If you have any questions or concerns about your dog and cancer,
please contact your licensed veterinarian immediately or request a . Scroll down to see some of my friends and which breeds are especially susceptible to developing certain types of cancer. clinical signs of canine cancer Free Canine Cancer Consultation for a detailed press release about the campaign (PDF). Click here Many of the most popular dog breeds are especially susceptible to developing cancer. A Tuft's University study found that cats living in homes with smokers are more than twice as likely than other cats to acquire feline lymphoma cancer. This type of cancer was previously thought to occur as a result of feline leukemia. In a Science Daily report, Dr. Antony Moore of Tuft's said, "The results of our study clearly indicate that exposure to environmental factors such as second-hand tobacco smoke has devastating consequences for cats because it significantly increases their likelihood of contracting lymphoma." Stray Dead Dog But just in case you're not ready to
leave the Southland right away... has one of the
healthiest Dead Dog Parties of any filk convention anywhere with nearly as many attendees as at the Saturday night open filk. The hotel restaurant is available, as well as several fast food places nearby. Bring a Doggie Bag and join us in the Elm/Maple room for an evening of fun.GAFilk Just click on the "widget" below or Click Here to visit the Donation Options Page Every donation, no matter how big or small, will help dogs get the care they need - so please, donate what you can...  To learn more about the "Dog Cancer Ride Across America" and the charities it supports, click on the navigation links on the left side of this page or click on the map below to visit the...