Expiration See what's on
Sale at DiscoveryStore.com Ongoing Please make sure that the DiscoveryStore.com promotional code is accepted before you complete your purchase. ShoppersResource.com provides this information as a service to you, and is not responsible for any misprints or typographical errors (see our for more information). Disclaimer Home Bookmark this Site Tell-A-Friend Link to Us Refresh Page Media © 2001-2009, 1995 ShoppersResource.com. All Rights Reserved. We hope you found Discovery Store coupon codes and
Discovery Channel Store discount codes that met your needs.   The stones used in that first circle are believed to be from the Prescelly Mountains, located roughly 240 miles away, The bluestones weigh up to 4 tons each and about 80 stones were used, in all. Around
1600 BC, the outer ring of giant Sarsen Stones (as much as 50 tons each) were transported from the Marlborough Downs 20 miles to the north. It was
originally thought that Stonehenge was built by ancient Druids, but this idea has been replaced by the idea that the late-Neolithic Becker People were probably the builders. Ancient Druids worshiped in forest temples and, presumably, had no need of stone
constructions, according to some archeologists. Focus Earth Focus Earth is a weekly eco-newscast. Each week, Bob Woodruff covers a variety of subjects ranging from climate impact, environmental policy, political debate and world events. The series includes studio-based round table discussions, feature
stories, and lively debates, making it the one-stop destination for a deeper perspective on the environment. Go for the Green Tom Green hosts a show called Go for the Green which is a fun, high energy elimination game show where 50 members of our live audience compete to stay in the game and prove that, like our host Tom Green, they're GREEN too! Please copy/paste the following text to properly cite this HowStuffWorks article: the Editors of Reader's Digest.  "When to Call an Exterminator."  25 November 2008.  HowStuffWorks.com. <http://home.howstuffworks.com/pest-control/animal-pests/when-to-call-an-exterminator.htm>  15 January 2009.
Home & Garden Videos More
Home & Garden Videos » One fast way to rid your yard and garden of animal pests is to trap them live and have them escorted from your property. In some cases you can do this by yourself, but you should check with your local animal control authorities first. Laws in many areas regulate trapping, since animals
may be protected, other people may not want to deal with your relocated pests, or the relocated animals may spread disease to a new area. Fire-cracked rocks found today were once key to the Native American way of life. Ancient Rock Piles Reveal Early American Cuisine   Italian police find 2,600-year-old offering jars in the most unexpected of places. Ancient 'Treasure' Found in Farmer's Bookshelf   An ancient Egyptian stone block bears an inscription revealing King Tut's father as
Akhenaten. King Tut's Father ID'd in Stone Inscription Researchers piece together a family's last hours after the eruption of Mount Vesuvius. Pompeii Family's Final Hours Reconstructed   By studying a
"light echo" astronomers identify what a Dane saw 400 years ago. Astronomers ID Supernova First Seen 400 Years Ago     MORE NEWS STORIES 23 Dec    22 Dec    22 Dec    17 Dec    11 Dec    03 Dec    25 Nov    21 Nov    20 Nov    20 Nov    19 Nov    18 Nov    13 Nov    06 Nov    31 Oct    31 Oct    30 Oct    29 Oct    29 Oct    28 Oct    24 Oct    23 Oct    20 Oct    20 Oct    16 Oct    4,300-Year-Old Tombs Unveiled Near Cairo   Discovery Store Coupon Codes - Discovery Channel Store Coupons coupons save you money on their unique products line of innovative electronics, fun and inspirational toys, captivating DVDs and more! Discovery Channel Store : enter the Discovery Channel Store discount code in the box labeled "Coupons - please enter any coupon code below" during Step 2 (Shipping) of checkout. Limit one Discovery Store coupon code per order. Discovery Store discount codes can not be used toward gift certificates, special orders, telescopes, telescope accessories, products requiring additional shipping, or previous purchases and cannot be combined with other discounts or
offers.How to Redeem a Discovery Store Coupon Code Advanced search Forward-Looking Statements This website contains certain forward-looking statements based on current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on information available to the Company as of the date hereof; and Discovery's actual results could differ materially from those stated or implied, due to risks and uncertainties associated with its business, which include the risk factors disclosed in its Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 6, 2008. Slave uprisings and Indian attacks added to the colony's difficulties. Permanent control was finally gained by the Netherlands in 1815. Slavery was ended in 1863. After that time much of the work on plantations was done by Asian immigrants and their descendents. In 1954, Suriname was granted internal self-government. In 1973, a coalition of Creole and Javanese parties gained power and began a campaign for independence, which was achieved in 1975. In
1980, the military seized power from the elected civilian government. On the longest day of the year, the June 21st summer solstice, the rising sun appears behind the 'Heel Stone' - one of the
main stones, creating the
illusion that it is balancing on the stone.
The Heel Stone sits along a wide lane called the Avenue. The rising Sun creeps up the length of the rock, creating a shadow that extends deep into the heart of five pairs of sarsen stone trilithons -- two pillar stones with one laid across the top -- in the shape of a horseshoe that opens up towards the rising sun. Archeoastronomers have also identified other stellar alignments with some of the other stones, however some controversy remains as to whether these stellar alignments were intended, or merely accidental.   Mauna Loa Solar Observatory Templo Major-Mexico No one really knows what the creators of this monument had in mind when, over the course of three renovations spanning 1500 years, they built this famous ring of stones on a wind-swept hill. Location: Salisbury, England Latitude, 51d 4' North
Longitude, 1d 48' West
Construction: This famous megalithic structure was apparently built in three stages beginning around 2950 B.C. and extending to 1600 B.C. During the first period of construction, it was a circular enclosure with two earthen banks and a ditch.