, , 16 other ships and their 10,000 sailors, airmen and Marines, who took part in the Doolittle raid in April 1942, were officially recognized for their daring exploit 53 years later, on 15 May 1995. In a ceremony at the Pentagon they were presented the Task Force 16 Citation by the Secretary of the Navy, Mr. Yorktown received the Presidential Unit Citation and earned 11 battle stars for service in World War II. Much of the Academy Award-winning (1944) documentary "The Fighting Lady" was filmed aboard Yorktown. In the 1950, Yorktown was modified with the addition of and angled deck to better operate jet aircraft in her role as an attack carrier (CVA). In 1958, Yorktown was designated an
anti-submarine
aircraft carrier (CVS), and would later earn 5 battle stars for service off Vietnam (1965-1968). CBS Paramount Domestic Television CBS Television Distribution Star TrekStar Trek: The Original Series high definition CGI [20] Mike Okuda CBS Digital Enterprise Gorn Arena matte [21] The first episode to be released to syndication was "" on the weekend of September 16, 2006. Episodes are being released at the rate of about one a week and broadcast in a 4:3 aspect ratio. Star Trek Remastered is also being broadcast in
Japan, but the Japanese version is presented in a 16:9 aspect ratio rather than in a 4:3 ratio. Wikipedia's open approach tremendously increases the chances that any particular factual error or misleading statement will be relatively promptly corrected. Numerous editors at any given time are monitoring and edits to articles on their .anyone to edit policies citable recent changes watchlist Wikipedia is  an approach that has its pros and cons. Censorship or imposing "official" points of view is
extremely difficult to achieve and usually fails after a time. Get the gang together at Patriots Point. Four ships, twenty five aircraft, vivid displays from World War II through Desert Storm. It's hard to imagine a better setting for your military reunion than Patriots Point Naval & Maritime Museum. Just ask the countless military reunion planners who have held hundreds of successful events at Patriots Point. The Confederate
Congress later accorded special thanks to all officers and men for their gallant conduct during the two-day battle. 9 March 1862 Virginia USS Monitor Patrick HenryMonitor was also present during some of s other actions and, in a daring night operation on , helped remove Confederate property from the before it was abandoned to the Federals.Patrick HenryVirginia' 5 May 1862 Norfolk Navy Yard The ship is designated to be sunk as a part of a fleet sinking exercise. The date and location have not been set yet. Q2. What is the current state of the ship? Has everything been stripped off already? Are the missile launchers and the guns still onboard? A2. The Navy is in the process of preparing the ship for sinking. The Allies were greatly concerned about the Japanese airfield construction effort on Guadalcanal because, when completed, the aircraft operating from the airfield would be a significant threat to Allied operations between Australia, New Zealand, and the United States. The two strategic victories for the Allies in the battles of the Coral Sea and Midway provided an opportunity to take the initiative and launch an offensive against the Japanese somewhere in the Pacific. Operator's Manual   Commander, Submarine Squadron One (CSS-1) Capt. Lindsay Hankins presents
USS Los Angeles (SSN 688) Commanding Officer, Cmdr. Steve Harrison, Executive Officer Lt. Cmdr. Eric George and Chief of the Boat Senior Chief Electronics Technician (SS) Ron Brooks with the 2008 CSS-1 Battle Efficiency (Battle “E”) award, given to the squadron’s submarine crew that best demonstrates technical proficiency and continual mission readiness throughout the year.  “I’m very proud of this team of warriors,” said Harrison.  “This is the strongest crew that I’ve ever seen.