Like many of my recordings, this one draws on earlier material here and there. I used to do that a lot back in the day. Some songs, like 'Ordinary People,' need to wait for the right time. I think now is the right time for that song and it lives well with the new songs I have written in the past few months. I had a blast making this music." Lyrical themes from this time include the hollowness of show business and commercial success ("LA" from "Time Fades Away"), the toll exacted by hard drug use, specifically the heroin-related deaths of former guitarist and roadie (the title track of "Tonight's the Night"), and other, less specific
but still downbeat subject matter. Crosby,
Stills, Nash & Young
Harvest Journey Through the Past country-rock
soft-rock The Eagles
Linda Ronstadt James Taylor Harvest Crazy
Horse Danny
Whitten Bruce Berry Some noted the influence of (which both Stills and Young had been members of), and the album even included unreleased Buffalo Springfield song "Down Down Down".D j Vu Neil Young Buffalo Springfield [] citation needed Stills estimates that the album took somewhere in the neighborhood of 800 hours of studio time to record; this figure may be exaggerated, even though the individual tracks display meticulous attention to detail. [1] In May 1970, two months after the album was released, the group recorded Neil Young's
quickly penned response to the , "." That single, backed with Stephen Stills' "," was released in late June of the same year, making it to #14 on the Billboard Hot 100, notwithstanding its accusatory sentiment. The album is a sequel to , a legendary Neil Young album from 1977 that had originally been scheduled for release but was shelved in favor of . was produced by Young and (aka The Volume Dealers), and
features the
ensemble of drummer , pedal steel guitarist and dobro player (, , ) and bassist Rick Rosas (, , ). The Blue Note Horns are on one track, "Ordinary People," and The Young People s Chorus of New York City on "The Way." Cragg was tinkering with Young's guitar rig, which sat in a little area to the rear of the stage. A gaggle of amps, a Magnatone, a huge transistorized Baldwin Exterminator, a Fender Reverb unit and the heart of it all: a small, weather-beaten box covered in worn-out tweed, 1959 vintage. "The Deluxe," muttered amp tech Sal Trentino with awe. "Neil's got four hundred and fifty-six identical Deluxes. They sound nothing like
this one." Young runs the amp with oversized tubes, and Cragg has to keep portable fans trained on the back so it doesn't melt down. "It really is ready to just go up in smoke, and it sounds that way flat-out, overdriven, ready to self-destruct." The "roadies" who move equipment about have been dressed as "road-eyes," the little scavengers with brown robes and beady pinpoint eyes from 'Star Wars.' The idea, reinforced by playing tapes of crowd-control announcements from the Woodstock Festival, is to comment on rock's aging, on the discrepancies between veteran rock performers and their teenage audiences, and on rock's allegiance to youthful rebellion and innocence. All of this reads better than it appears on the screen, however,
where an otherwise fine
concert is continually
interrupted by
laboriously miming "roadeyes" and other cuteness.   Mr. Young, who directs the film under the rather coy pseudonym of Bernard Shakey, further limits its appeal by extremely grainy and underlit footage. And the Palladium, as
rock's principal rock concert hall in New York, is likely to attract more rock fans than film buffs. Gov't Mule Cortez the
Killer Dave
Matthews The sold-out 2007 Christmas Jam featured G Love, Frampton, Hornsby, and more. Visit Asheville Citizen-Times for a . The alone is worth the click. Brilliance. review of the show and some videos comment thread Cortez the Killer originally appeared on the frequently overlooked album . Often imitated, but never duplicated, Neil Young's unique musical songwriting and playing style has influenced a generation of artists from Booker T. and the MG's to Pearl Jam to Wilco. From to , to , rockabilly to heavy metal, blues to synth, a musical genre label will never apply to Neil and his music. An
observer once wrote that Crazy Horse bandmate "Poncho" Sampedro referred to Young's musical polygamy as "a fact of life." alt-country grunge punk alternative "Young has always been a lone wolf - a musical chameleon, who changes his musical style and his band as often as most people change their shirt." Nash sang "Prison Song" and a lovely new love song, reminiscent of "I Miss You" on Wild Tales, and Crosby began the solo spots with a new tune reflecting his own maturity -
"Carry Me" -
then a tribute to his "favorite song writer" with "For Free" by Joni Mitchell, and "Guinnevere," which had Nash sneaking up to weave in a perfect laser beam of harmony. Here, the audience was stilled, many on the main floor assuming Fifties civil-defense huddle positions, heads sunken between knees. Nash followed with "Sleep
Song" and "Our House," which earned an ovation, and he gave way to Stills for "4 + 20" and the banjo workout. Young then performed two more new compositions, both musically lighthearted: "Love Hard Blues" and "Long May You Run,"
which he wrote for his refurbished '48 Buick Roadmaster. will perform the following concerts: March 26 at House of Blues in Chicago IL, March 29 at Hard Rock Cafe in Pittsburgh PA, April 2 at Mexicali Live in Teaneck NJ, May 5 at the Brook in Southampton UK, May 6 at West End Centre in Aldershot UK, May 7 at Phoenix in Exeter UK, May 8 at Acorn Arts Centre in Penzance UK, May 12 at Thekla in Bristol UK, May 13 at Arts Centre in Pontardawe UK, May 14 at The Robin in Bilston
UK, May 16
at Brindley Arts
Centre in Runcorn UK, May 17 at Picturedrome in Holmfirth UK, May 18 at Telfords Warehouse in Chester UK, May 20 at Liquid Room in Edinburgh UK, May 22 at Arts Centre in Norwich UK,
May 23 at The Stables in Milton Keynes UK, and May 24 at Mick Jagger Centre in Dartford UK. Sorry. You need to to watch this movie. upgrade your Flash Player Think you already have an up-to-date Flash player? . Try again Gov't Mule w/ Dave Matthews Cortez the KillerSong Christmas Jam at Asheville Civic CenterVenue Asheville, NCLocation For the past 19 years, has
been melting faces
for charity at his annual to benefit ().
Warren Haynes Christmas Jam Habitat for Humanity donate online The song was released on the LP in 1986, but is believed by some to have been recorded shortly after the shootings. Jandek Governor Rhodes Telegraph Melts [] citation needed The industrial band 's 1989 song "", which appears on the albums refers to the event (The song is also on the live Skinny Puppy Tin Omen Rabies .) More common is the film designed solely for an act's fans. But some appeal beyond the cult to the general public, as in Richard Lester's two Beatles movies. Neil Young's 'Rust Never Sleeps,' which opens a limited run at the Palladium today, might seem to be
in the latter category. In fact, it's very much a fan film.   Its credentials as a message beyond the cult rest largely on its extra-musical conceits. Instead of being a straight concert documentary, 'Rust Never Sleeps' calls itself a "concert fantasy." As he was during last fall's tour at which this was filmed, Mr. Date: Sun,
28 Nov 2004 14:51:36 -0800 (PST) From: Mike
Cordova To: rust@rustlist.org Subject: Albums in order: Road Rock Vol. 1 This live album was recorded during the Music In Head/Friends & Relatives tour of 2000. It struck me immediately upon release of this album that 5 of Neil's
most current albums including this one had been live or compilation collections. Hmm, I don't know what to make of that, but it says something. But Crosby was clearly unhappy. "During rehearsals [at Young's ranch in La Honda, south of San Francisco], we never had time to go all the way through the show, see how long forty-four songs would take," said Crosby. "It was an honest mistake. I gave too much and ended up cheating Vancouver. I felt bad. I'd let them down and I'd let the band down." But, as Nash and Stills and manager Elliott Roberts said, the group cannot contain itself, once onstage. They weren't dark romantics like the Doors, evil blues-sex minions like the Stones, or even craftsmen like the Byrds. They weren't a real
good guitar rock band, a real good folk rock band, and their experimentation ('Broken Arrow') leaves an entire list of
somethings to
be
desired. But somehow, they still convince me this album is darn good. Not great, but it plays it on TV.country Gobs of creativity and sporadically brilliant, but somehow just isn't all it's cracked up to be. Maybe it's because I can't figure what
the fuck it's
supposed to be about.Capn's Final Word: Any Short Comments?: You think too much Cap'n. It about your "Everydays!"Stephen  Your Rating: B+ (Eh? With over 40 albums with bands including The Buffalo Springfield, Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young, and Crazy Horse, Young has never been easily categorized with influences ranging from folk, rock, punk, , country, blues, and synth. grunge Neil Young Concerts Rolling Stone's Paul Nelson writes on the Boarding House shows in San Francisco, CA in 1978: "In the manner of the best of the traditional blues singers, Neil Young seems totally alone on stage in a way that almost no contemporary performer ever does. In the process they broke a bank window which set off an alarm. The news spread quickly
and it resulted in several bars closing early to avoid trouble. Before long more people had joined the vandalism and looting. By the time police arrived, a crowd of about 100 had already gathered. Some people from the crowd had already lit a small bonfire in the street.