Answer these to determine if Armaid is right for you:four questions
 
Check to see whether any part of your forearm has any tension or tightness. Take your free hand and rub along the forearm muscles. Are there any tight areas?1.
 
Have you felt burning, achy, sore, fatigued or ropey muscles in the hand or forearm and have you felt the urge to massage anywhere along the arm, hand or elbow?  2.
 
Have you previously had a massage in these areas and felt better?3.
 
Have you been diagnosed with “trigger points” (really tight and painful spots) in your forearms or hand?4.
 
If you answered “yes” to any of the above questions, we guarantee Armaid will work for you when used as directed.  You may with a money back guarantee.  try Armaid risk-free
 
Generally speaking there are thattwo ways
problems can develop in your arms and hands.
 
Forearm muscles can become too tight from overuse.  The muscles shorten and pull on where the two ends of the muscles attach.  These two ends are called the , found in the elbow area, and the located in the hand and fingers.   This causes pain, fatigue, inflammation and loss of strength.    For example: If a muscle becomes tight it will pull on both ends causing pain and symptoms at perhaps either end but the problem really begins in the .   Armaid is specifically designed to release tight muscle tissue anywhere in the forearm, hand or elbow. 1.origininsertionforearmIf you have tight or sore muscles anywhere in your forearm, then Armaid is definitely for you.
 
Tight muscles in the neck, shoulder or chest can compromise the nerve pathways that limit normal function and create symptoms “downstream” in the arms, elbows and hands.  If your forearm muscles are tight or sore then that is an indication that your problems come from the neck and shoulder area.2.notArmaid cannot help problems that stem from these areas if your arm muscles are completely devoid of tension. 
 
Armaid Attachments
Armaid has for different applications.  Armaid can be adjusted for use at any point from the fingers all the way to above the elbow. Armaid is also excellent at relieving lymphedema and thumb problems (de Quervains syndrome) and other maladies. .three distinct attachments See attachments
 
When Armaid isn't enough... Other Resources
As much as we here at The Armaid Company wish that all your problems could be alleviated by using Armaid alone, it sometimes just isn’t enough for a complete recovery when the problems go beyond sore forearm muscles. This is why we’ve included an alternative resources section.
 