 
 
  An arrhythmia is an abnormal heart rhythm. This change from the regular heartbeat can be classified as an irregular (skipped or extra heartbeats), fast (tachycardia) or slow (bradycardia) rhythm. In order to understand arrhythmias, it is helpful to understand how the heart works electrically. What is an arrhythmia?
Each heartbeat begins with the generation of a small amount of electricity in a special tissue area on the heart known as the sinus node (SN in the diagram). Each electrical signal or impulse leaves the sinus node and spreads into the muscle cells of the heart atria causing them to contract, or beat. The electrical activity then moves into the area or junction between the atria and ventricles through another special structure called the atrioventricular node or in short, the A-V node (AVN on the diagram below). The A-V node acts as a sort of relay station, taking the signal that comes from the atria, delaying it slightly (so the ventricles can fill with blood) and then passing the signal on into the ventricles. Special pathways carry the electrical signal from the A-V note to all parts of both ventricles so the signal can pass into all muscle tissue of the ventricles causing both of the ventricles to beat at about the same time
In the majority of children, arrhythmias occur in an otherwise structurally normal heart. However, in some children, they are associated with other heart abnormalities. Therefore, evaluation for the presence of any heart abnormalities is an important part of the initial assessment in children with arrhythmias. Other causes included certain medications, caffeine, tobacco, and stress.
What are the causes of arrhythmias?
Do rhythm abnormalities run in families?
Certain types of arrhythmias or heart diseases appear to have a genetic basis or run in families. This means that a family member with the disease can pass this on to his or her children. Furthermore, some family members may appear to be normal but still carry the gene for a disease and can pass this on to their children. Recently, abnormalities or defects in specific genes have been identified as the cause of certain heart diseases and arrhythmias. 
Symptoms can be mild or severe. These include a feeling of a rapid heartbeat or fluttering in the chest (palpitations). Symptoms also include weakness, dizziness (lightheadedness or feeling faint), or chest pain.
What are the symptoms? 
What are the different types of heart rhythms?
The normal heartbeat originates from a spot in the right upper chamber of the heart called the sinus node. The normal heart rate varies with age with faster rates occurring normally in younger children.Normal sinus rhythm:
Variations in heart rates usually occur during breathing. This is especially common in younger children and is considered normal. Sinus arrhythmia:
A fast heart rate above the upper limit of normal for age arising from the sinus node. Sinus tachycardia:
A slow heart rate below the upper limit of normal for age arising from the sinus node. Sinus bradycardia:
An early beat arising from the upper chambers of the heart. This is a common finding in healthy children and adults and rarely causes any symptoms. Premature atrial contractions (PAC's):
An episode of a rapid pulse rate arising from the upper chambers of the heart. The onset may be sudden or gradual and the duration ranges from seconds to days. SVT heart rates are usually faster in children than in adults and often are greater than 150 beats per minute. There are multiple causes for SVT. Supraventricular Tachycardia (SVT):
The most common cause of SVT in children. This is due to the presence of an extra strand of muscle tissue inside the heart. It is not seen by ultrasound (ECHO) but can be detected with an electrocardiogram (ECG) during sinus rhythm. This may disappear completely by one year of age but rarely resolves after infancy. Wolf-Parkinson-White Syndrome (WPW):
AV Node Reentry Tachycardia (AVNRT):The most common cause of SVT in adults, but rarely seen in infants. It occurs because of an extra electrical pathway within the normal conduction pathway of the heart (AV node). The extra pathway can allow the electrical impulse to go around in circles, sort of causing a short circuit in the normal pathway. This type of tachycardia tends to start and stop abruptly. The ECG during sinus rhythm is usually normal.
A rare form of SVT in children. It is caused by an abnormal electrical circuit within the atrium. It is considered relatively benign in newborns with almost complete resolution in all by one year of age. It is most commonly seen following surgery for complex congenital heart disease.Atrial Flutter:
Rarely seen in children. This is an irregular form of SVT due to chaotic electrical activity occurring in the atrium. There is a rare familial form of atrial fibrillation. This type of SVT may also be seen following surgery for congenital heart disease.Atrial Fibrillation:
An early beat arising from the lower chambers of the heart (ventricles). This may be seen in the presence of a normal heart but the possibility of underlying heart disease should be investigated.Premature Ventricular Contractions (PVC's):
A regular, rapid heartbeat arising from the ventricle. May be sustained (lasting from minutes to hours) or non-sustained (less than 30 seconds). This form of tachycardia is more commonly seen in the presence of underlying heart disease.Ventricular Tachycardia:
A very dangerous, irregular tachycardia arising from the ventricle. The heart cannot effectively beat or pump blood during this arrhythmia.Ventricular Fibrillation:
The normal electrical impulse that causes the heart to contract begins in the top chamber of the heart. It then travels through specialized conduction tissue to the bottom of the heart. If there is any blockage of this signal (heart block), the top and bottom chambers cannot communicate properly and do not contract in a synchronized manner. The bottom chamber usually contracts at a much slower rate than the top chamber of the heart, leading to an abnormally slow heart rate (bradycardia).Heart Block:
The sinus node in the top chamber of the heart may become scarred as a result of certain heart diseases or surgeries or due to aging. If the scarring is significant, the signal generated by the sinus node may become very slow or develop pauses in activity. This also may lead to an abnormally slow heart rate.Sinus Node Dysfunction:
 
 
 
No part of this website may be reproduced without the consent of Variety Children's Heart Centre.
This website designed, created and  maintained by Tony Garcia RN.