Excellent
48 year old with a moderate budget, traveling for leisure1 reviews 
My husband and I have been there 3 times in the last year. Each time we have been there it has been wonderful. The service has been great. Might be because we go during the week when they are less busy. Our rooms have always been ready on time. If not early. They have always upgraded us to a suite and they are extremely nice. We have never eaten dinner at the buffet. but the breakfast has been good. The 1875 Steakhouse, is good (little pricey) and Hagen's is also good. The pizza at Pluto's is outstanding.
Each time we have been there it has been during a different season. If you have the chance to go at Christmas the decorations are beautiful. This fall will be our fourth trip this year and the last of the seasons for us. We will have seen it at every time of the year.
If you are going to gamble request the garden wing. It is the closest to the casino and with the service elevators (ask where they are) it is not a very far walk at all.
We have found the staff very friendly and more than willing to answer questions and talk with us about the history of the hotels. Since we like to sleep in while we are away we usually do not have our room cleaned every day. Once while we are there is enough. I just ask for extra towels and coffee. The floor maid is usually waiting in the hall or is close by when we leave our room after lunch and always asks if we need anything.
This is a destination hotel and you need to take time and explore the hotel, grounds, and town. We never stay less than 3 days. In this day and age people don't know how to slow down and take in the atmosphere and history of a grand hotel from the past. My husband and I are in our 40's and both work. We like to relax when we go away. Take time to sit on the veranda in one of the many rocking chairs, walk down the promenade and explore the shops, go to the lobby for drinks in the late afternoon, and by all means. Ask questions. You might be suprized at the history lesson you get.
Another plus to going there is the shuttles they have that run from the resort over to the West Baden, golf course, and winery. So once you park your car you can either take the shuttles or walk just about anywhere in the town. All you have to do is call down to the lobby and make arrangements for the time you want to leave and where you want to go and show up. They will be waiting.
Hotel Deals