Sign up for our E-Newsletter
 
Targeted Courses
VoyagerU is excited to introduce 4 new professional development courses: Small-Group Intervention, Vocabulary, Fluency, and Content Integration. These Targeted Courses allow teachers to dig deeper into critical areas of reading instruction. Through a blended architecture of online learning, group discussion, and classroom practice, each course supports authentic skill development:
Latest research pertaining to effective reading instruction
Group interaction-teachers discuss, plan, and reflect with peers
On-line coursework with videos, quizzes, and downloadable classroom materials
Opportunities to apply new strategies in the classroom
The Small-Group Intervention course covers the critical task of identifying and targeting individual student needs within the classroom. Teachers develop skills in differentiating instruction to ensure all students master the critical skills necessary to be grade-level readers:Small-Group Intervention
Recognizing the components of effective intervention
Identifying students at risk of retention
Setting goals, monitoring progress, and accelerating student learning
Delivering effective small-group intervention
Research shows a strong correlation between vocabulary knowledge, reading comprehension, and overall academic achievement. VoyagerU's Vocabulary course focuses on a student's ability to learn and use words effectively. This course empowers teachers with the tools to increase student vocabulary knowledge:Vocabulary
Understanding vocabulary development and how it impacts student achievement
Assessing student vocabulary skills
Using assessment to target instruction to accelerate learning
How to teach eight specific vocabulary skills students need
Fluency provides a bridge between word recognition and comprehension. The Fluency course focuses on a student's ability to recognize words quickly and accurately, and read aloud with expression. In this course, participants learn ways to measure and improve student fluency:Fluency
Defining and understanding the importance of fluency in reading development
Knowing when and how to assess reading fluency
How to target instruction to improve student fluency
The important emphasis on reading and math instruction sometimes means science and social studies receive less attention. VoyagerU's Content Integration course helps teachers develop techniques for using their daily reading block to boost science and social studies knowledge-without compromising reading instruction. Teachers also learn to apply reading strategies during science and social studies instruction to help students perform better in those content areas.Content Integration
Understanding how cross-curricular learning impacts student achievement
Making content "come to life" through graphic organizers, technology, and other instructional reading elements
Maximizing academic content without compromising language arts instruction
Applying content integration techniques at all instructional levels
 
 
I truly got a lot out of this online course. It was very informative while being user friendly. With a busy schedule I thought it was important to have the flexibility to work at my own pace. The requirements of the course were appropriate; not too demanding however there was enough required to make this a worthwhile undertaking. It was just the right balance. I enjoyed it!
Lynne Poulos, Coach at Hayden McFadden Elementary New Bedford School District, Massachusetts