[] edit
Visitor Dog Heat Cycle Question
Besides the boy dogs being interested, the blood, and the swelling of the vulva, how can you tell when a female dog is in heat? Also, how early can a female go into heat and does it happen every six months or does it vary?
~~Debmaran
Expert Reply
Hi Deb,
Let me start with your second question. While it is not a hard rule, most females come into their first heat cycle around six months of age, although I have had girls wait as long as one to one and a half years old. While many females will hold to a fairly steady schedule of coming into season about every six months, it really can vary. Some girls will only come in once year, while others may even come in every four months, but often these "extra" seasons are not always fertile. Once a female has her first season, you need to track subsequent seasons to find out what her natural pattern will be.
That said, let's talk about signs a female is in season. In my experience, a female will usually:
Show a change in mood shortly before her season commences, acting a bit touchy. Doggie PMS? Who can say for sure?
Sometimes, but not always, the breasts will swell slightly. This can also be a sign of a phantom pregnancy, when a female may begin to show signs of being pregnant even if she's not, so watch if this happens, but it usually resolves itself in a few weeks after the cycle ends.
Males are great early warning detectors and can smell the change in a female's hormones before she fully comes into heat.
The vulva can show some swelling, but it is quite variable, some girls hardly swell at all, while others swell up like a golf ball.
Tail flagging is another sign. When a female is ready to be bred, she'll usually stand quite still while the male investigates her vulva, holding her own tail up and wagging it side to side to make sure he gets the scent.
Blood discharge is usually the biggest indicator, with a pinkish red colored discharge the first week, usually turning to a tannish color during the fertile period, and changing back to a reddish color before gradually stopping altogether. Some females keep themselves extremely clean, and it may be difficult to tell if they are in season at all.
Those are the basic signs. Let me add that in my opinion, a female should never be bred until she is fully grown, usually around one and a half years for a small breed, and perhaps as much as two and a half years old for larger breeds. That way, a mother's body will be able to focus its energy on growing healthy pups without robbing her of the nutrition she needs for herself.
I hope that answers everything for you, and thanks for your question!~~Kelly
[] edit
More Dog Breeding Questions
Thank you for answering my question so fully. I do have one more add on to this question. I am pretty sure my puppy is in season. I do not want to breed her yet, as you said she's too young and I have some testing I want to have done on her first. In your opinion, should I keep her separated from my male when not in my direct sight. Also, do you know of any dog obstetricians close to the NW Ohio area?always
~~Debmaran
Expert Reply
You're welcome, Deb.
My advice would be to keep your male and female separated at , even when you're around. One moment's distraction is all it takes for your male to make the most of his opportunity, and an early pregnancy would be very draining on your young female.all times
As for your question about dog obstetricians, when the appropriate time comes, your regular should be able to see the two of you through the process very well. You'll get plenty of advice on healthy diet, safe exercise, and all necessary medical care for your female, including ultrasounds, and a C-section if it turns out to be necessary. veterinarian
In fact, now is the perfect time to scout out a good vet, before you breed your female, so I recommend you discuss your future plans with your current vet, and if you're comfortable with the answers you receive, then you might want to continue with him/her. A good vet/breeder relationship involves a certain level of mutual trust that can only be built over time. This relationship is an essential part of any solid breeding program, so make sure you feel comfortable working with the vet you choose.
Best of luck!~~ Kelly
[] edit
Could Dog Be Pregnant?
I think my dog might be pregnant, but I'm not sure. She has lumps developing underneath her nipples. Is this a sign she is going to have puppies?
~~Rhianne
Expert Reply
Hi Rhianne,
Although it's not enough to confirm your dog's breeding was successful, breast development is a common . I've always looked for this development in my own bitches around two to three weeks after the last breeding took place. sign of dog pregnancy
For now, treat your dog as if she is pregnant, and offer her plenty of and fresh drinking water. If you know the exact date she was bred, you can have her palpated by your twenty-eight days from that breeding. After this time, the uterine horns begin to swell, and detecting the embryos won't be easy until they are quite a bit larger. Your vet will likely prescribe some prenatal vitamins to assist with the puppies' growing nutritional needs. high quality dog food vet
Best wishes for a safe delivery and a home for every pup!
~~Kelly