OCD Behavior in Children
Obsessive Compulsive Sufferers’ Behavior – The Top 10 Patterns
.Doctors suspect that the reasons for obsessive compulsive sufferers’ behavior include careers, relationships, academic or financial concerns. It becomes important to understand that this compulsive behavior must not be interpreted as just some exaggerated fears that are normal in mundane life
Obsessive Compulsive Sufferers’ Behavior – The Signs
The patients’ distress is mainly due to the fact that they realize that they are actions are often inappropriate and irrational. Such actions may be mental, (such as canceling the bad thoughts by thinking the good), observable (washing hands) or in the context of avoidant behavior (avoiding things of other people).
Obsessive Compulsive Sufferers’ Behavior – Fallout
More often than not, the obsessive compulsive sufferers’ behavior tends to leave the patients in a state of shame and embarrassment due to which they try to hide the same. When such behavior consumes several hours of the patients, their normal life seems to be disturbed. When emotional distress is coupled with this behavior, the patients’ entire career will be interfered.
Obsessive Compulsive Sufferers’ Behavior – Common Obsession Patterns
In a clinic, the commonly observed obsessions include
Unnecessary fear that they could be contaminated through the items they use.
Fear that they could have left the car or home door unlocked.
Fear that the stove was left turned on.
Needless urge of wanting the things to be neatly arranged.
Fear that they could commit offensive actions.
Obsessive Compulsive Sufferers’ Behavior – Common Compulsion Patterns
The five common compulsions associated with the above mentioned obsessions are
Trying hard to remain insanely clean by excessive showering and hand washing.
Verifying frequently if the door is locked.
Needless fixing of a bookshelf and cabinets.
Preserving things that are mostly considered as garbage by fellow people.
Trying to reassure them selves by asking others that they do not show signs of any compulsive behavior.
 