LIVE:Videos +View All
Featured Hotel Deals
Caesars Palace Las Vegas Hard Rock Hotel Casino Las Vegas Planet Hollywood Las Vegas The Venetian Wynn Las Vegas
-No Convenience Fees -All Reservations 100% Guaranteed -Great Vegas Travel Deals -Experienced Vegas Experts -Open 7 days a week -Call us toll-free 1.800.947.1081 or   local at 1.702.425.7513 -Secure & Reliable: Certified byWe dare you to compare our prices with all other websites.
The Ritz-Carlton Lake Las Vegas
/71
Guests will enter into the lap of luxury when staying at the Ritz Carlton in the Las Vegas suburb of Henderson. Elegance and old world class describe the style and service this resort destination will provide. Modeled after the famous Ponte Vecchio in Florence Italy, the Ritz Carlton provides the grace and sophistication you would expect from Italy. The Tuscan inspired resort includes activities such as romantic gondola rides, relaxing fly fishing, adventurous hiking, biking and kayaking and luxurious yacht tours. Lakeside activities also include outdoor concert series and Friday night Jazz performances. The Ritz Carlton also features a private beach with a surplus of chaise lounge chairs to choose from and rental pool cabanas that feature flat-screen televisions and refrigerators. Two award winning golf courses round out the activities the Ritz has to offer. Guestrooms and suites overlook either lake, mountain or resort views. European linens adorn the beds with down feather pillows and comforters for total relaxation. Deluxe bathrobes and oversized soak tubs make for another fabulous in room treat. If relaxing is the main item on your agenda, the 30,000 square foot European inspired spa will be able to treat you right. With 24 treatment rooms and various massage treatments and a private sun deck, guests will find just what they are looking for. Luxury is truly at its finest at this Mediterranean inspired getaway. You will come for vacation and want to stay for a lifetime. The personalized service and vast array of leisure activities make this beautifully designed resort world class.
Hotel best known for: