MARKETMAX ADVANCED RETAIL PLANNING AND ANALYTICS SOLUTION SELECTED BY DISCOVERY CHANNEL STORES
Marketmax Will Help Create Seamless Consumer Shopping Experience Across Catalog, Internet and Retail Stores
Wakefield, Mass. - June 25, 2001 - Marketmax, Inc. announces today that Discovery Channel Stores has selected its full Integrated Merchandise Planning Solution as part of a technology infrastructure project. The project includes a new merchandise planning and analysis system, replenishment system and an upgrade to Discovery Channel Stores` transactional system.
Marketmax is the leading provider of advanced retail planning and analytics software for many of the world`s most respected retailers and their suppliers. Discovery Channel Stores is a premier specialty retailer of entertaining and educational products and is committed to delivering an engaging, multi-channel shopping experience across its 165 stores, Web site (www.discoverystore.com) and catalog. Marketmax`s highly scalable, Web-based software will help Discovery Channel Stores become more intimate with its products and customers. The goal of the project is to help Discovery Channel Stores increase margins, optimize inventory, and provide a customized yet seamless customer shopping experience across all retail channels.
Deloitte Consulting, one of the world`s leading consulting firms, and Discovery Channel Stores worked closely together to identify the scope of the project, conduct a needs assessment, and select vendors. Marketmax will work with Deloitte Consulting on software implementation.
"We recommended to the Discovery Channel Stores that it invest in the areas of technology infrastructure that were going to result in the most immediate ROI. In our view, planning, analysis and replenishment are the areas where the company will receive the greatest value quickly," said Carl Tymann, a senior manager in Deloitte Consulting`s Consumer Business Practice, Western Region. "We also recommended that Discovery take a best-of-breed approach to vendor selection to ensure it gets the richest product functionality from respective experts in its space. As a result of an in-depth evaluation, we found that Marketmax and E3, when combined, have one of the most complete and deepest offerings." Marketmax and E3 have a strong strategic partnership and are committed to providing a total solution in the area of retail planning, analytics and replenishment.
Carla Rolinc, senior vice president of information systems at Discovery Channel Stores commented, "We want to combine our three channels of business into one collaborative analysis and planning environment with the ultimate goals of optimizing inventory and delivering a consistent yet customized shopping experience for our customers. After exploring several options, it was clear that the Marketmax solution was the best fit for us. They presented an integrated product suite that will enable us to link our financial, in-season, assortment and space planning processes together using a single system. Marketmax`s Web-based product architecture will provide us with the foundation for building a collaborative planning environment. In addition, we were very impressed by Marketmax`s retail knowledge, experienced and attentive team and the way the team was able to translate our business needs."
"It is important for a premier specialty retailer such as Discovery Channel Stores to ensure the best possible customer experience. This means that products are available where and when customers expect to find them, whether they are shopping online, by mail, or in stores," said Lori Schafer president and CEO of Marketmax. "Our scalable, Web-based software will allow Discovery to understand its channels, products and customers intimately, anticipate demand, and build optimized retail plans that deliver measurable ROI. We are confident Discovery will achieve the consistency it is looking for across its channels. We are also excited to work with Deloitte Consulting on implementation, as they share our high-standards and commitment to customer satisfaction."
About Discovery Channel Stores Discovery Channel Stores Discovery Consumer Products, a division of Discovery Communications, Inc. (DCI), extends DCI`s brands to consumers through interactive and engaging products that focus on real-world subjects including animals and nature; people, places and culture; health; science & technology; travel, adventure and exploration; and kids. Consisting of Discovery Retail, discoverystore.com, Discovery Passport, Discovery Publishing, Discovery Home Video, Discovery Licensing, Discovery Educational Products and Discovery International Consumer Products, the division is poised to significantly increase the presence of Discovery-branded products on a global basis. Discovery Consumer Products are currently represented in 71 countries and 28 languages. For more information, visit www.discoverystore.com.
Guide to Retail Web Site Design & Usability
About Marketmax Marketmax, based in Wakefield, Mass., is the leading provider of advanced retail planning and analytics software to the worlds` premier merchants and their suppliers, helping them to keep one step ahead of demand. Marketmax enables retailers and their suppliers to become more intimate with their stores, channels, products and customers to deliver measurable results in the form of increased margins, fewer markdowns, improved inventory turns and greater customer satisfaction. The company`s flagship product enables retailers and their suppliers to analyze large amounts of historical data and turn it into meaningful predictive information. This powerful information is used to create and manage optimized retail plans that are synchronized to work together from a single, highly scalable Web-based product.
Marketmax customers include Amazon.com, Burlington Coat Factory, Lowe`s Companies, Inc., Marks & Spencer, Office Depot, Pamida Stores, PDI/Kenneth Cole Menswear, Sainsbury`s Supermarkets, Service Merchandise, ShopKo Stores, The Spiegel Group, The Sports Authority, Staples, and Williams-Sonoma.
For more information, visit www.marketmax.com or call our worldwide headquarters at 781-876-3200. For European sales information call +44-1455-823800. For Canadian sales information call 905-841-7626.
###
Marketmax is a registered trademark of Marketmax, Inc. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.