Division Troopers enforce on rural and perform a variety of other duties: Highway Patrol traffic laws Texas highways
Apprehend traffic law violators, investigate most rural , recover stolen vehicles and stolen property, apprehend wanted persons, and assist other officers during emergencies. traffic accidents
Supervise the State Program which includes inspection stations and mechanic inspectors. Vehicle Inspection
Provide education and information programs on and and control. traffic safety crime prevention
Responsible for security at the Complex in Austin. Texas State Capitol
Enforce laws regulating weight, registration and other regulations governing commercial carriers.
Driver License Division Troopers license and rehabilitate Texas drivers.
[] edit Personnel
The Highway Patrol Service consists of 2,174 commissioned officers who provide police traffic supervision on approximately 225,339 miles of rural highways. THP troopers conduct fraudulent document investigations, are partnered with drug and explosive detection canines, are members of Civil Disturbance Management Teams, comprise the majority of the DPS Dive Team and team, provide dignitary protection for the Governor and other state and national dignitaries, and provide mapping of crime scenes. SWAT forensic
A Texas Highway Patrol patrol car Crown Victoria
The mission of the Highway Patrol Service is:
To secure and maintain order in traffic on highways of assigned responsibility within existing regulations to make the use of those highways safe and expeditious; To educate the citizens of Texas in matters of public safety, crime prevention and detection and law observance; and To supervise police security of the Capitol complex and assigned areas of responsibility
[] edit History of the Highway Patrol Service
The first Texas State traffic law was enacted in 1907. It consisted of six sections registration of motor vehicles, speed regulations, racing, hand signals for granting right-of-way to animals and the requirement for a suitable bell and lights on motor vehicles.
The beginning of rural traffic law enforcement in the State of Texas was with legislation passed in 1919. This legislation expanded the rules and regulations for the movement of vehicular traffic.
During the early 1920 s, civic-minded officials and citizens of Texas began advocating to the State Legislature the need for some method of statewide enforcement of traffic regulations governing motor truck traffic and specifically and all vehicular traffic in general.
In 1927, it became apparent to the Texas Legislature that increasing truck traffic on the meager roads of Texas was presenting a real problem, resulting in actual and potential damage to highways and bridges and endangering the safety of the public. With the advent of trucking as a major industry, and with the roads, at the time, generally narrow and hog-backed, the Texas Legislature found it necessary to create an organization to enforce existing regulations.
The Texas Highway Department was authorized to employ 18 License and Weight inspectors and one Chief inspector. After only two years, the License and Weight Section was increased to 50 men and named the State Highway Patrol. Two years later, in 1931, the enforcing agency was authorized 120 men. Its officers had limited police powers with authority only to deal with misdemeanor traffic violations. They generally avoided felonies on the highways except when forced to take action due to the circumstances.
It was realized by 1935 that the State s part in crime prevention and traffic control was inadequate and improperly organized. Accordingly, on August 10, 1935, the 44th State Legislature created the Texas Department of Public Safety, and assigned this new agency the powers of enforcement of the laws protecting the public safety and providing for the prevention and detection of crime. The act provided for transfer of the State Highway Patrol from the State Highway Department to the Department of Public Safety. The State Highway Patrol was renamed the Texas Highway Patrol and its officers given full enforcement powers.
The Texas Highway Patrol was at first authorized 147 men, an increase of 27 from its prior staffing. Eighteen additional patrolmen were authorized for 1936. In 1937, the Texas Legislature permitted the Department to substantially increase the strength of the Highway Patrol to 235 men.
The new Highway Patrol Division divided the State into 12 districts. Each district was commanded by a Captain, who was responsible to the Highway Patrol Chief. The number of districts was later expanded to 16 and remained the basic Highway Patrol organization until 1957.
The Department of Public Safety reorganized its administrative structure September 1, 1957 in response to recommendations of the Texas Research League. The State was divided into six regional areas, each under a regional commander responsible to the Director. Field divisions including the Highway Patrol, Motor Vehicle Inspection, License and Weight, Drivers License, Communications, Safety Education and Texas Rangers were designated as Services and their personnel placed under the regional commanders. Each region was broken down into two Highway Patrol districts to permit more effective supervision. Each patrol district was commanded by a captain, the highest ranking Highway Patrol officer, who had responsibility for the total operation of the district and was responsible to the regional commander.
The Traffic Law Enforcement (TLE) Division was created in 1968. The six regions, with headquarter offices in Garland, Houston, Corpus Christi, Midland, Lubbock and Waco, were placed under the TLE Division and a Chief was appointed to command the Division. Each Regional Commander, holding the rank of Major, reported to the Chief of TLE, and the Chief reported to the Director.
In 2003, the TLE Division was reorganized and renamed the Texas Highway Patrol (THP) Division. Highway Patrol, Safety Education, Vehicle Inspection and Capitol services were combined and renamed the Highway Patrol Service. The growing License and Weight Service was renamed Commercial Vehicle Enforcement Service. In addition, two new regions were created and headquartered in McAllen and at the Capitol, and a new Highway Patrol District was headquartered in Bryan.
Today, there are currently 18 Highway Patrol Districts and 2,174 commissioned officers, including supervisors in the Highway Patrol Service.