News stories about genetically engineered hypoallergenic cats. Genetically modified cats for sale
Male German wirehaired pointers can be screened for normal coagulation Factor IX values, but carrier females often have normal Factor IX values and cannot be diagnosed using Factor XI assays. Through research at Cornell's Comparative Coagulation Laboratory and the James A. Baker Institute, a new screening test has been developed to accurately identify Hemophilia B carrier females. Hemophilia B In German Wirehaired Pointers
GDC gathers results from veterinary screenings of individual dogs for genetic diseases and makes that information available to responsible breeders, owners, veterinarians and researchers. Institute for Genetic Disease Control in Animals (GDC)
Instruction material from the Topic Areas in Lactation Biology class from the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. Lactation Biology
This site explores the prevalence and nature of inherited disorders in common dog breeds. LIDA - Listing of Inherited Disorders in Animals
The Reptiles and Amphibians in Captivity site collects longevity and breeding information. Longevity Project
Comparative Neuromuscular Laboratory, University of California - San Diego, Case Presentation. In addition to specific case presentations (many of which have video clips, muscle biopsy specimens, EMGs, and other advanced diagnostics), monthly topics include muscle biopsy techniques and anesthetic considerations of patients with myopathies. Site contains information about hereditary neuromuscular diseases, plus additional links and email addresses for research being conducted. Neuromuscular Case Presentations
A database of genes, inherited disorders, and traits in more than 135 animal species (other than human and mouse). The database contains textual information and references, as well as links to relevant PubMed and Gene records at the NCBI. Online Mendelian Inheritance In Animals (OMIA)
Genetics laboratory at the University of Pennsylvania; run by Urs Giger. PennGen
Protein-Losing Enteropathy (PLE), Protein-Losing Nephropathy (PLN), and renal dysplasia are conditions commonly seen in the Soft-Coated Wheaten Terrier. North Carolina State University is conducting research into this condition and maintains this website. Site includes information on clinical presentation, pathogenesis, and treatment of PLE and PLN, as well as screening recommendations and sample submission information. PLN and PLE in Wheaten Terriers
Pregnancy Determination in the Bitch
Contains information on the collection, handling, and evaluation of semen in bulls, stallions, and dogs. Semen Evaluation
An extensive set of notes from a course Wyman Nyquist taught (from 1972-1998) on Statistical Genetics, with a focus on Animal and Plant Breeding are now freely available on line(as pdf files). Statistical Genetics
Designed for breeders of pedigreed cats and contains information on topics they might find relevant (such as early age altering) as well as case histories illustrated with photos. Susan Little DVM
Swine Testing and Genetic Evaluation System
The Canine Diversity Project is an attempt to acquaint breeders of domesticated dogs with the dangers of inbreeding. Site includes information on basic concepts of genetics, inbreeding, diversity, test matings, DNA tests, and other useful information for breeders and veterinarians. The Canine Diversity Project
This site wants samples from purebred dogs suffering from one of the following diseases: osteosarcoma, hemangiosarcoma, lymphoma, mammary neoplasms, mast cell tumor, and melanoma. The Canine Genome Sequencing Project
Establishing the optimum breeding time of the bitch. Slide presentation from a series of on-line tutorials prepared by Auburn University College of Veterinary Medicine. Vaginal Cytology
Techniques for preparing a vaginal smear, classification of vaginal epithelial cells and a discussion on canine vaginal cytology from Colorado State University. Vaginal Cytology
This site currently covers bovine, ovine, and bubaline antelope, with canine feline, equine porcine, and caprine sections in development. Visual Online Reproduction Guides
An online, illustrated book that discusses the search for mutant genes that cause the 4,000 hereditary disorders affecting humans. Blazing a Genetic Trail (Human)
Gene Tests is a publicly funded medical genetics information resource developed for physicians, other healthcare providers, and researchers. Contains expert-authored disease reviews, educational materials, a list of international genetic testing laboratories, and a directory of international genetics and prenatal diagnosis clinics. GeneTests
Genetic Alliance is a coalition of more than 600 advocacy organizations serving 25 million people affected by 1000 conditions. The organization works to transform leadership in the genetics community to build capacity in advocacy organizations and to educate policymakers by leveraging the voices of individuals and families. Genetic Alliance (Human)
The Genetics Home Reference (Your Guide to Understanding Genetic Conditions) is the National Library Of Medicine's web site for consumer information about (human) genetic conditions and the genes responsible for those conditions. Genetics Home Reference: (Human)
What do you know about your family medical history? Are there medical conditions that run in your family? Diabetes? Heart disease? Cancer? Knowing this information can help determine increased health risks. The National Library of Medicine has made collecting your family medical history easy with resources available at Genetics Home Reference. This site also provides a wealth of consumer information on genetic conditions. Genetics Home Reference: Family History
Informational links to a variety of information on specific human birth defects. Provided as a service of the National Library of Medicine. Genetics/Birth Defects
Check out the Genomics and Its Impact on Medicine and Society - A 2001 Primer - a publication of the U.S. Department of Energy Human Genome Program. Genomics and Its Impact on Science and Society
Provides links to a variety of sites related to the study of human DNA. Presented by Harvard University, Department of Molecular & Cellular Biology. Human Biomolecular & Biochemical Databases
Normal and abnormal mammalian development tutorial that uses scanning electron micrographs (SEMs) as the primary resource to teach mammalian embryology. Human Embryo Images
Genetics related information from RegSource.com Human genetics
The U.S. Human Genome Project is a 13-year effort coordinated by the Department of Energy and the National Institutes of Health. Human Genome Project
Presented by the National Center for Biotechnology Information (NCBI). NCBI creates public databases, conducts research in computational biology, develops software tools for analyzing genome data, and disseminates biomedical information for the better understanding of molecular processes affecting human health and disease. Human Genome Resources
Advantages of Spaying and Neutering
A Mississippi State University publication intended to assist in the study of the formation of the egg and the avian embryo. Incubation procedures show you the effects of heat, moisture, and ventilation upon the development of the chick embryo. Avian Embryo
Canine health links of interest Canine Health Foundation (AKCCHF)
Cat Breed Descriptions (Purebred Cats, Pedigreed Cats) Cat Breed Descriptions
Cat Color Genetics
If you breed different cockatiel mutations, what is the likely distribution of the cockatiel chicks when they emerge from the nestbox? Cockatiel Genetic Calculator
File of information on cow, bull, and calf management. Covering topics from replacement heifers to general cow herd management. Sponsored by the Oklahoma Cooperative Extension Service and Oklahoma Education Television Authority. Cow-Calf Corner
Dog Owner's Guide: Spay/Neuter Surgery
Comprehensive coverage of cat genetics, both for coat color inheritance and congenital diseases. Feline Genetics
(Free Service) A Genetic Calculator for parrot mutations. Calculates all the possible genetic outcomes for any combination of breeding pair. Shows the probabilities for each outcome. Takes into account Recombinant Frequencies for: X chromosome loci (sl, cin, ino, op - 7%, 3%, 30%) and blue and dark loci (14%). Genetic Calculator
Mare Reproductive Loss Syndrome - An index of related articles
A genetic history of the dog family, Canidae. Molecular genetic approaches have provided information about evolutionary divergence at a number of different levels, ranging from the relationships of the Canidae to other carnivore families, to relationships among populations within a single species. This information is discussed in this review. Molecular evolution of the dog family
Spay Day USA Official Site
CNN - Spaying alternative on the horizon for pet owners Spaying alternative
The Alliance for Contraception in Cats and Dogs is a collaborative effort to develop and test non-surgical technologies for the humane control of cat and dog overpopulation. The Alliance for Contraception in Cats and Dogs