Patch of the Nevada Highway Patrol.
Agency Overview
421 (as of 2004) [3]
Civilians
131 (as of 2004) [4]
Agency executive
Footnotes
Division of the country, over which the agency has usual operational jurisdiction. Divisional agency:
(NHP) is a division of the that is responsible for law enforcement across the entire state of . The headquarters is located in with regional commands in , and .Nevada Highway Patrol Nevada Department of Public Safety Nevada Carson City Reno Elko Las Vegas [5]
The duties of the Patrol range from enforcing the laws on the highways to operating the State's criminal history repository.
Contents
[] edit History
In 1908 the was created to provide a state level law enforcement presence as a result of labor strikes in the mining communities. When made ownership of the automobile accessible to the populace of America by mass producing the Model T Ford, the problem of enforcing the laws of the road soon followed. On , , the first Nevada State Highway Patrolman was hired by the Nevada Highway Department under the supervision of the . This officer and the Inspector of the State Police would travel throughout the State collecting automobile registration fees and enforcing the laws of the highway. Nevada was one of the first western states to have an organized highway patrol function. Nevada State Police Henry Ford June 23 1923 Inspector of the Nevada State Police [] citation needed
By 1934, the highway patrol force had grown to three officers still supervised by the Inspector of the State Police. They were given silver patrol cars with gold stars on the door, red lights and sirens, and told to patrol the roads. One officer was assigned to Las Vegas, Reno and Elko.
This part of the Nevada State Police remained operational until the State Police were reorganized in 1943. At that time, the Nevada State Highway Patrol was absorbed into the State Police who continued highway law enforcement until 1949 when the Nevada Highway Patrol was organized.
The 1949 created the Nevada Highway Patrol by consolidating the Nevada State Police, Inspectors from the and several Inspectors from the . On , , the Nevada Highway Patrol Division was created within the Nevada Public Service Commission. These officers were directed to act as field agents and inspectors in the enforcement of the State laws as they pertained to Nevada highways. But the history of law enforcement on Nevada highways goes back many years before the Nevada Highway Patrol was created. Nevada Legislature Nevada Public Service Commission Nevada Department of Taxation July 1 1949
In 1957, the Legislature created the and transferred the Nevada Highway Patrol to this new department as a division. Department of Motor Vehicles
In 1985, the name of the Department was changed to the (DMV&PS) to reflect the law enforcement agencies that had been added. Department of Motor Vehicles and Public Safety
In 2001, DMV&PS was split into separate departments and the Nevada Highway Patrol is now a division of the . Nevada Department of Public Safety
In 2005, NHP opened a new and in . communications center emergency operations center Clark County
In 2007, DPS Northern Nevada Communications center moved from the Reno Northern Command Headquarters into the State Emergency Operations Center in Nevada's capitol city, Carson City.