Photo Album
A small selection of the more interesting photos and video clips I have taken over the years. Don't miss the ones of the , , and the "". Click on each thumbnail to expand the picture or play the video. Grand Canyon Great Wall of China Space Shuttle launch Road Ruiner
2006
A short trip to Tokyo for work, with a weekend of sightseeing, including a trip to Kyoto. These pictures (and a short movie clip) are in a slideshow . here
2005
Another short trip to Melbourne (stopping one day in Singapore). A week in Washington DC attending a wedding. Two weeks working in Bangalore (stopping one day in Sri Lanka).
A spectacular temple in Sri Lanka.
Bangalore also has many temples with very ornate exteriors.
The Tipu Sultan Summer Palace - the left side in this picture completely open to the elements.
Lalbagh Glasshouse, inspired by the Crystal Palace in south London.
The street outside the apartments I stayed at - looking deceptively peaceful, it was usually very difficult to cross the road because of all the traffic.
Cattle roam the streets.
The Maharajah's at Mysore, a few hours' drive from Bangalore. The was stunning, full of carved wood and stained glass, but sadly, photography was forbidden. palace interior
Farming the traditional way near Mysore.
A very large and impressive monolithic stone Nandi Bull on Chamundi Hill.
...and a monkey eating the decorative flowers on it!
A rare white tiger at a safari park near Bangalore.
My friend Venki took me to the Art of Living - spectacularly illuminated at dusk. Ashram
A huge monolithic statue of Lord Gomateswara at the Jain temple at Sravanabelagola.
A short video clip of musicians playing at the temple (RealVideo, 457kB).
Incredibly ornate carvings, each telling a story, cover these temples at Belur and Halebid, nearly a thousand years old.
This statue even apparently had carved stone strings on the instrument (now broken off).
This carving allegedly sounds the notes of a musical scale when struck in the appropriate places.
Typical village life nearby, as it has been lived for centuries - cattle, a well, hand washing.
The road opposite my hotel in Sri Lanka was lined with small shops and shrines like this.
But every so often there was a lovely ornate colonial house like this.
A very cheap hotel in Sri Lanka, three wheeler taxis and the "Hacks 'n Cracks" internet cafe. Hmm.
A deserted museum full of colonial bric-a-brac in Colombo.
The usual Washington sights - The Whitehouse...
...Union Station...
...the Smithsonian Air and Space Museum...
...and the Lincoln memorial.
Our friends Howard and Katrin were married...
...and we stayed at their lakeside holiday house at for a couple of days. Deep Creek
A nice peaceful shot of Falls, in the Dandenong ranges east of Melbourne. Olinda
Old and new - dilapidated dock warehouses and the apartments that are replacing them at the Yarra river entrance, Melbourne.
The spectacular view from the kitchen window of friends Robin and Peter's house in South Gippsland, looking towards Wilson's Promontory
Old and new in Singapore harbour.
2004
A short trip to Melbourne to see my parents in January. I started a new job in central London. I bought a telescope. My nephews were Christened. Meade ETX105
My brother Ian with his son James at his Christening.
The view from my new workplace, looking east along Marylebone Road towards Baker Street, above Edgware Road tube station.
A quick picture I took of the transit of Venus on 8th June.
A picture I took of Saturn on 13th November
Hanging Rock, north of Melbourne
A typical country pub in Euroa, Victoria.
Video clip of ducks at Taronga Park Zoo, Sydney (RealVideo, 418kB).
Video clip of a koala at Phillip Island, south of Melbourne (RealVideo, 297kB).
Pelicans at Phillip Island.
The Botanic Gardens (and government house) in Melbourne.
Feeding wild kangaroos (and a joey) at . Phillip Island
Amanda, Mum and Dad in the new Federation Square in Melbourne.
Orchids in the Singapore Botanic Gardens.
Amanda enjoying a Singapore Sling at Raffles Hotel, Singapore.
2003
My cousin Jane visited from Canberra. A holiday in Cornwall, including visits to Goonhilly satellite earth station, the Tate Gallery at St Ives, the Eden project and Poldhu Cove, from where Marconi sent the first transatlantic radio transmission. A short trip to Dublin to see my friend Venki.
My Indian friend Venki in Dublin.
Westminster from the . Millennium Wheel
My cousin Jane on the South Bank of the Thames.
An amazing variety of wildflowers beside the road at Poldhu Cove, Cornwall.
The at Gweek. Seal Sanctuary
One of the dozens of wind turbines near Goonhilly.
A large satellite dish, one of about 60 at , used for transatlantic phone calls and data. Goonhilly satellite earth station
Exterior of the , a sort of environmental theme park near St Austell. Eden Project
2002
A visit to Melbourne to see my parents. Ian and Sue had another son, James, and moved to a thatched cottage in Somerset.
My new nephew, James.
Rear garden of my brother's new house at Tellis Farm, East Coker.
A swimming pool, Australian style - a fenced-off bit of ocean at Geelong.
The Mornington Peninsula at the entrance to Port Phillip Bay, from a light plane.
The pier at St Kilda at sunset, close to the centre of Melbourne.
A new, trendy pastime for young people - lawn bowling! Apparently it started at this club in St Kilda when they discovered it had a liquor licence.
2000
A week in Prague and Budapest. We moved house and acquired two kittens. My brother Ian married Sue just after Christmas and our parents flew over from Australia for the occasion. I became an uncle.
Mum, Ian, Sue and Dad at Ian and Sue's wedding.
A rare sight at most weddings, sadly - Dodgem cars!
My new nephew, Alexander.
Dad, Mum and Ian near Ian's home in Winchester.
Our new kitten, Dido (named after the Queen of Carthage, not the pop singer!).
Our other new kitten and Dido's inseparable companion, named Roly because his main hobby is rolling on the floor.
Our new house - an Edwardian semi in Carshalton Beeches, about 17km  south of London (see ). map
Our new back garden (and concealed shed).
Catholics were thrown through the middle window of Prague castle here in one of the many "" of Prague. defenestrations
The magnificent art nouveau style municipal building, recently restored.
A jazz band on a boat trip on the Vistula in Prague.
That well known Hungarian shop - Marks & Spencer, Budapest.
Folk dancing in the "Danube bend" region of Hungary, the 1000th anniversary of the kingdom.
An interesting "sculpture park" on the outskirts of Budapest, where statues from the communist era have been taken.
Click these buttons for earlier photos.