Sung: Why I will vote for Barack Obama
By Eric Sung, Guest Columnist
Oct. 30, 2008
• Castellanes: Why I will vote for John McCain
When this long journey first began last year on the steps of the old capitol in Springfield, Ill., I endorsed an African-American candidate who is running against the established bedrocks of the Democratic Party and against all odds. This man proceeded to shock the world by capturing the Iowa caucus on Jan. 3 and went on to defeat Sen. Hillary Clinton in the toughest primary in recent history. Now we stand less than a week from Nov. 4, Election Day, and possible history in the making. I endorsed this man in the primaries and I will continue to stand by Barack Obama on the eve of the most important election in my life.
 
As a nation, we are dealing with the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression, an illegal occupation of a foreign country and an underfunded war against terrorism in Afghanistan. President Bill Clinton left this nation with a booming economy and a surplus in the budget and President George W. Bush is walking away with nearly $10 trillion in deficit and an economy on the verge of a recession. John McCain offers no real change from the policies of President Bush. He believes in the same failed trickle-down economics and deregulatory policies that have left this country on the brink of a major financial collapse. He proposes more tax breaks to the wealthy, while leaving the middle class to fend for themselves. Instead of universal health care, John McCain wants to tax your health care benefits and cut Medicare and Medicaid benefits. In the midst of a slumping market, he wants to privatize social security and risk your future on the volatile stock market. In Iraq, McCain sees no reason for us to exit an illegal occupation that is costing the US taxpayers $10 billion a month. On foreign policies, John McCain is a return to the old days of the cold war, where silence, stubbornness and threat of violence defined our policies rather than openness and the willingness to engage our enemies in talks instead of war. John McCain claims to be for justice and equality, yet he has consistently voted against a woman’s right to choose and against affirmative-action policies. John McCain portrays himself as a maverick and a reformer, yet he has voted over 90 percent of the time with President Bush and has backed away from reform that he once championed, such as comprehensive immigration reform. John McCain is not the solution for the future of this country, but the continuation of a failed administration.
 
 
Barack Obama is a clear break from the failed policies of the republican administration. He advocates universal and accessible health care for every American, even those with pre-existing conditions, and tax relief for 98 percent of all Americans instead of the wealthiest among us, according to the independent Tax Policy Center. He wants to re-establish regulations and protective measures to ensure that a future melt down will not be as dramatic and devastating. He has an exit strategy, which the Iraqi government has endorsed, for us to exit Iraq responsibly, and a clear objective in Afghanistan to apprehend and eliminate the terrorists that struck the US on that fateful day in 2001. He has a plan to secure Social Security for future generations while protecting important programs such as Medicaid. Obama will be a new kind of President in foreign policies. He will not only strengthen the ties with our allies but also engage in diplomacy with our worst enemies in order to resolve our differences. He understands that our greatest strength lies not in our military prowess but our ability to create peace through mutual dialogue and understanding. Finally, Obama will free us from our dependence on foreign oil within 10 years through a comprehensive energy plan that focuses on renewable and sustainable energy instead of fossil fuel, one that is not focused on drilling and the creation of nuclear power plants. It will be tough to do everything and we must sacrifice as Americans. However, they are necessarily steps to set this country back on the right path for the future.
 
I stand here today with Barack Obama not simply because this nation needs a new direction, but that we need a new leader, someone with the ability to inspire a world and unite a nation. History has taught us that words are powerful enough to unite and set a nation down a path of justice and equality; how a great leader can inspire an entire generation and lead courageously in the face of crisis. Barack Obama possesses that special ability to both lead with his actions and inspire with his words. As a community activist, he worked on the causes of the poor and the jobless, as a teacher, he taught constitutional law to aspiring lawyers; and as a legislator, he reached across the aisle to create real change in Illinois and in Washington. Through a tough primary, he forged an alliance between blacks and whites, rich and poor, young and old, republicans and democrats. Through an election campaign, he has inspired a new generation to embrace and engage the political process.
 
There is an old saying that opportunity may come knocking once in a lifetime. That time is now. This is our chance to make history. It’s time that we make our presence felt in Washington and it is time we make our voices heard around the world. Yes, we can. Last Friday, I walked into my early voting station and enthusiastically cast my vote for Barack Obama as the next President of the United States of America. I have never been more proud of my country and of myself.
 
I leave you with the story of Ashley Baia, a 23-year-old organizer for Barack Obama’s campaign, told by Barack during his “A more perfect Union” speech. While campaigning for Obama, she was asked by a room why she is there and Ashley shared her personal story. When she was nine years old, her mother was diagnosed with Cancer. She was let go of her job and they lost health care. They filed for bankruptcy and that’s when 9-year-old Ashley decided to do what she can to help her mom. As a child, there are very few things she could’ve done to support her mom. However, she knew that food was one of their highest expenses. She convinced her mom that what she really liked and really wanted to eat more than anything else was mustard and relish sandwiches, because that was the cheapest way to eat. She ate mustard and relish sandwiches for a year until her mom got better and their situation improved. That may not sound like a great sacrifice, but for a 9-year-old, it might be one of the few things that she could’ve done. She told everyone that the reason she stands with Barack was so she could help the millions of other children in the country who want and need to help their parents too. After she told her story, other people started sharing why they are supporting Barack. Everyone had a different reason ranging from Iraq to health care except for an elderly black man. He simply says, “I am here because of Ashley.”
 
I stand here with Barack because of Ashley and others like her. We stand here together because we want to help the millions of Americans that need help in a time like this. Will you join me, Ashley and millions of Americans on Nov. 4 and vote for Barack Obama as the next president of the United States?
 
Deny cynicism and fear and vote for your hopes and dreams. Vote for the future and what it can be, and reject a continuation of the past and what it was. Vote Barack Obama for the next President of the United States of America.
 Past Articles