13 External links
[] edit Direct vs. subtle
Unlawful discrimination can be characterized as direct or subtle. Direct discrimination involves treating someone less favorably because of their possession of an attribute (e.g., sex, age, race, religion, family status, national origin, military status, sexual orientation, disability, body size/shape), compared with someone without that attribute in the same circumstances.
Indirect or subtle discrimination involves setting a condition or requirement which a smaller proportion of those with the attribute are able to comply with, without reasonable justification. The U.S. case of provides an example of indirect discrimination, where an aptitude test used in job applications was found "to disqualify Negroes at a substantially higher rate than white applicants". Griggs v. Duke Power Company [2] [1]
[] edit Race discrimination
Racial discrimination differentiates between individuals on the basis of real and perceived racial differences, and has been official government policy in several countries, such as in the era, and the USA. South Africa apartheid
An child at a segregated drinking fountain on a courthouse lawn, , 1938.
African-American North Carolina
In the , of minorities by law enforcement officials has been called racial discrimination. As early as 1865, the provided a remedy for intentional race discrimination in employment by private employers and state and local public employers. The applies to public employment or employment involving state action prohibiting deprivation of rights secured by the federal constitution or federal laws through action under color of law. Title VII is the principal federal statute with regard to employment discrimination prohibiting unlawful employment discrimination by public and private employers, labor organizations, training programs and employment agencies based on race or color, religion, gender, and national origin. United States racial profiling [2] Civil Rights Act Civil Rights Act of 1871
Title VII also prohibits retaliation against any person for opposing any practice forbidden by statute, or for making a charge, testifying, assisting, or participating in a proceeding under the statute. The expanded the damages available in Title VII cases and granted Title VII plaintiffs the right to a jury trial. Title VII also provides that against every race and color is prohibited. Civil Rights Act of 1991 race and color discrimination
In the UK the inquiry following the murder of accused the police of . Stephen Lawrence institutional racism
Race/sex discrimination case. An Industrial (Employment) Tribunal in the UK in 1987 decided that a trade union was justified in not assisting a Black woman member, complaining of racist/sexist harassment, regardless of the merits of the case, because the accused male would lose his job. The Employment Appeal Tribunal upheld the decision, which still stands today as the definitive in this field. Also known as the Racial Harassment issue. Weaver v NATFHE (now part of the UCU) legal precedent Bournville College
[] edit Age discrimination
is or group on the grounds of age. Although theoretically the word can refer to the discrimination against any age group, age discrimination usually comes in one of three forms: discrimination against (also called ), discrimination against those 40 years old or older , and discrimination against elderly people. Age discrimination youth adultism [3]
In the United States, the prohibits employment discrimination nationwide based on age with respect to employees 40 years of age or older. The also addresses the difficulty older workers face in obtaining new employment after being displaced from their jobs, arbitrary age limits. Age Discrimination in Employment Act Age Discrimination in Employment Act
In many countries, companies more or less openly refuse to hire people above a certain age despite the increasing lifespans and average age of the population. The reasons for this range from vague feelings that younger people are more "dynamic" and create a positive image for the company, to more concrete concerns about regulations granting older employees higher salaries or other benefits without these expenses being fully justified by an older employees' greater experience.
Some people consider that and (around 15-25 years old) are victims of , age discrimination framed as a paternalistic form of protection. In seeking social justice, they feel that it is necessary to remove the use of a false moral agenda in order to achieve agency and empowerment. teenagers youth adultism
This perspective is based on the grounds that youth should be treated more respectfully by adults and not as second-class citizens. Some suggest that social in age groups causes outsiders to incorrectly and generalize the group, for instance that all adolescents are equally immature, violent or rebellious, listen to rock tunes, and do . Some have organized groups against age discrimination. stratification stereotype drugs
Ageism is the causal effect of a continuum of fears related to age. This continuum includes:[] citation needed
: the fear of infants or small children. Pediaphobia
: the fear of youth. Ephebiphobia
: the fear of elderly people. Gerontophobia
Related terms include:
: Also called adultarchy, adult privilege, and adultcentrism/adultocentrism, this is the wielding of authority over young people and the preference of adults before children and youth. Adultism
: Also called "youthism" is the holding of beliefs or actions taken that preference 'younger' people before adults. Jeunism
See also: Sexism
Though gender discrimination and sexism refers to beliefs and in relation to the of a person, such beliefs and attitudes are of a social nature and do not, normally, carry any legal consequences. , on the other hand, may have legal consequences. attitudes gender Sex discrimination
Though what constitutes sex discrimination varies between countries, the essence is that it is an adverse action taken by one person against another person that would not have occurred had the person been of another sex. Discrimination of that nature in certain enumerated circumstances is illegal in many countries.
Currently, discrimination based on sex is defined as adverse action against another person, that would not have occurred had the person been of another sex. This is considered a form of and is illegal in certain enumerated circumstances in most countries. prejudice
Sexual discrimination can arise in different contexts. For instance an employee may be discriminated against by being asked discriminatory questions during a job interview, or because an did not hire, promote or wrongfully terminated an employee based on his or her gender, or employers pay unequally based on gender. employer
In an educational setting there could be claims that a student was excluded from an educational institution, program, opportunity, loan, student group, or scholarship due to his or her gender. In the housing setting there could be claims that a person was refused negotiations on seeking a house, contracting/leasing a house or getting a loan based on his or her gender. Another setting where there have been claims of gender discrimination is banking; for example if one is refused credit or is offered unequal loan terms based on one s gender. [3]
Another setting where there is usually gender discrimination is when one is refused to extend his or her credit, refused approval of credit/loan process, and if there is a burden of unequal loan terms based on one s gender.
Socially, sexual differences have been used to justify different roles for men and women, in some cases giving rise to claims of primary and secondary roles. [4]
While there are alleged non-physical differences between men and women, major reviews of the academic literature on gender difference find only a tiny minority of characteristics where there are consistent psychological differences between men and women, and these relate directly to experiences grounded in biological difference. [5]
Unfair discrimination usually follows the held by a society. gender stereotyping
The had concluded that women often experience a "" and that there are no societies in which women enjoy the same opportunities as men. The term "glass ceiling" is used to describe a perceived barrier to advancement in employment based on discrimination, especially sex discrimination. United Nations glass ceiling
In the , the Glass Ceiling Commission, a government-funded group, stated: "Over half of all Master s degrees are now awarded to women, yet 95% of senior-level managers, of the top Fortune 1000 industrial and 500 service companies are men. Of them, 97% are white." In its report, it recommended , which is the consideration of an employee's gender and race in hiring and promotion decisions, as a means to end this form of discrimination. United States affirmative action [6]
individuals, both male to female and female to male, often experience problems which often lead to dismissals, underachievement, difficulty in finding a job, social isolation, and, occasionally, violent attacks against them. Transgender