Tonawanda, NY NOCO Energy Corp.
NOCO Energy Corp. is a supplier of natural gas, lubricants, and other fuel products to commercial and residential consumers. A dynamic, growing company with a sterling reputation, NOCO is committed to safety, health, and the environment. The people of NOCO Express, NOCO Lubricants, NOCO...  more
Chelsea, Massachusetts Gulf Oil Limited Partnership
Gulfpride - the World's Finest Motor Oil was manufactured and first marketed in 1928 and by the early Thirties, Gulf was a major U.S. corporation. In 1949, William Larimer Mellon, a founder and active head of Gulf for 45 years, died at 80, just 17 months after his retirement, as the...  more
East Hanover, New Jersey Anderol Inc.
ANDEROL is a leading manufacturer and marketer of high performance speciality lubricants used in wide ranging industrial applications backed by over 60 years of experience. ANDEROL has a pedigree of technological leadership, pioneering the use of synthetic fluids in aviation to support...  more
Farmers Branch, Texas Hydrotex
Hydrotex is committed to developing the most appropriate solutions for our customers. We have over 300 products which are currently being utilized and more products in research and development. We frequently develop a unique solution/product for a customer just to insure we keep our...  more
Harvey, Illinois Fuchs Lubricants Co.
Fuchs Lubricants Co. is the U.S. operating unit of the Fuchs Worldwide Group, the largest independent manufacturer of specialty lubricants in the world. Fuchs provides high quality lubricants and services to a wide range of American industry - from underground mines to pharmaceutical...  more
Santa Ana, California NRG Resources , Inc.
NRG Resources, Inc. is the specialized developer, manufacturer and worldwide distributor of the most technologically advanced line of high performance automotive and industrial lubricant products. The Company markets these products to consumers through direct response sales campaigns. The...  more
Stanstead, Quebec, Canada Asalco Inc
Asalco manufactures, markets and distributes specialty chemical products such as electronics cleaners and lubricants. DeoxIt , a major brand name of California-based Caig Laboratories Inc, also makes a complimentary line of related products. Asalco specializes in a diverse array of...  more