: Add not thereto; And concerning thy former sins. make make supplication
: Let my before You; deliver me according to Your word. come supplication come
: Vouchsafe, O Theotokos, that I may to the King of all, and ask remission of transgressions. offer offer pure supplications
: Supplication If you know this ceremony then you can to your deity. perform perform a supplication
: I heard , moaning, and shots. cry cries, supplications
: Theotokion Lady, do thou of thy slaves, and deliver us from every affliction and necessity. receive receive the supplications
Adjective modifier
: When, conscious of his helplessness, he combined his pleading with did the miracle of a spiritual resurrection happen. earnest earnest supplication
: Request them to present their to the King. humble humble supplication
: O holy hierarch of the Lord, by to God deliver from all need those who with faith celebrate thy memory. thy thy constant supplications
: O holy hierarch of the Lord, by thy to God deliver from all need those who with faith celebrate thy memory. constant constant supplications
: As for devotions and invocations, whoever wisheth may, after the Obligatory Prayers, recite of the Blessed Perfection. other other supplications
Noun used with modifier
: O saint of God, by entreat Him to have pity on us all. thy thy supplications
Preposition: of
: The avails much in its working. man supplication of a righteous man
Preposition: with
: Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and let your requests be made known unto God. thanksgiving supplication with thanksgiving
Preposition: for
: He was a man of prayer and he made, in verses 4 to 9, a . power supplication for divine power
Quotessupplication
This is the dead land This is cactus land Here the stone images Are raised, here they receive The of a dead man's hand Under the twinkle of a fading star.supplication
—Eliot,T(homas) S(tearns)
How splendid in the morning glows the lily; with what grace he throws His to the rose.supplication
—Flecker,James Elroy