 
Dog Gestation
The number of puppies is in function to the dog's breed and the female. Large breeds can have up to 13 or 14 puppies. Mediums sized dogs can have up to 5 puppies per litter.How many puppies can a dog have in one gestation?
 It lasts from 56 to 60 days.
How long does a dog gestation last? 
You can have a vet examine the dog. An ultrasound scan can be performed starting on day 21 and an x-ray on day 45; this is when the puppy's skeletons will be visible. Yes, when the female mates and her heat is not interrupted. It usually ends at the end of the cycle. Therefore, the female can be mounted again by another male and have puppies from two different parents at the same time. Yes, but it is precise to give the dog a shot during the first 10 days after mating. There is no method that allows us to see if the dog is pregnant before day 21. So there is a chance that we are giving the dog a shot for nothing. Abortion can lead to a uterine infection, where pus appears on the female's vulva.How do we know if a female is pregnant?
Can a female have puppies of different parents in the same litter?
Can an abortion be performed? 
Does abortion lead to any risks? 
Female Dog Labor
It is difficult to deteHow do we know the exact day for labor?
 rmine the exact date, unless mating was provoked. On the day of labor the female seems anxious, breathless and wants to hide. It is precise to leave the dog alone, after preparing a box with covers. From the first puppy until the last one an interval of about 36 hours must pass. Only an x-ray will allow us to know if there are any remaining fetuses. Call the vet, but DO NOT pull the puppy out. It is preferable, since some females can hurt the puppies if they pull the cord too hard.
How do we have to take care of labor?
How long does labor last? 
What must we do in the case of any problems? 
The umbilical cord must be cut?
Breast Feeding a Puppy
It is precise to feed the puppies with special dog milk and baby bottle. It is a problem that happens about 2 months after heat. The female's teats are swollen and milk comes out when they are pressed, even though the female is not pregnant. Her behavior is that of a mother's. She picks up toys, it spoils them and moans. The origin of this phenomenon is hormonal. A specific hormonal treatment must be used. With the extirpation of the ovaries or a hormonal injection to prevent the dog from being in heat, this problem can be prevented; which is not dangerous for the female.What must we do if the female does not have any milk?
What is the milk rise?
How do we prevent this?
 
Dog Health
Not always, it is difficult to know by just feeling them. The only way to see if they are is to remove and analyze them. It is precise to take an x-ray of the dog's lungs to make sure that no metastasis exists; if it does we must perform chemotherapy on the dog. It is preferable. Yes, if they are clear and not abundant. If the color and consistence are modified, it is usually a sign of a uterine infection. The fluids become thick and the female is really thirsty. It is usually necessary to remove the uterus. Yes, but it is also normal to tell it not to do that. Since dog's must not lick their genitals continuously. We must prohibit the animal from doing this, from the moment it starts. Yes, but these are not operated on. The anatomic situation of the prostate in the dog is very complicated and the ways to access it during a surgical procedure are difficult. Old dogs are usually the victims of these tumors. One of the 2 testicles gets swollen and hurts. The dog walks all hunched over and his posterior extremities are tense. Castration will be necessary in this case.Are mammary tumors carcinogenic?
What must be done in the presence of cancer?
Should mammary tumors always be operated? 
Is the flow of fluids from the vulva normal?
Is it normal if a dog licks his/her genital organs?
What must be done if when a dog gets excited alone or with someone's leg?
Are there prostate tumors in dogs?
Are testicular tumors frequent? 
 Yes, in this case the testicles can be located under the skin or the abdomen. In this case, if they suffer from cancer no one will see them. The risks of metastasis are very high. This is why it is preferable to remove the hidden testicles, but it is not completely necessary to castrate the animal. Yes, these are manifested by non-clear fluids on the penis. It will be necessary to administer antibiotics to the dog. 
It is precise to operate if his testicles haven't descended?
Can the dog have sexual infections? The Man and the Dog
Use our Free and 9,000 Active Member Discussion Forum to