Cooking & eating to surfeited collapse
Monday, December 08, 2008
Happy Holidays!
W and I leave for Paris shortly and will be away most of December, so I just wanted to wish everyone a fabulous festive season full of joy, love, merry-making and over-the-top feasting. Joyeux No l et bonne ann e! See you in 2009...
Monday, November 10, 2008
Meringue Magic
The last 4 sessions of , a demo class, will be held at on (Saturday), (Sunday), (Saturday) and (Sunday) - the and schedules have all the details. For all inquiries, please call the school at or email
Holiday Baked Treats Shermay's Cooking School 22 November 2008 23 November 2008 6 December 2008 7 December 2008 November December +65 6479 8442 shermaycs@yahoo.com.sg
As mentioned , getting the hang of meringue alone opens up many other possibilities, all detailed in the bonus section of the recipe pack. I like to think of it as a fun guide to some fabulous holiday ideas. here
There is something magical about meringue, that a substance comprising of ingredients as ordinary as egg whites and sugar can be transformed with whisk and air into dreamy clouds of lightness, featherweight yet capable of being manipulated into virtually any shape you fancy with kit no more sophisticated than a piping bag and nozzle. Call me simple-minded, but I honestly do think it's fundamental kitchen alchemy at its essential and fascinating best!
Aside from covering techniques for meringue cookie shapes like , , and ,poinsettiasshellskissesporcupines
I've also included 2 recipes for filling cookie pairs - and both make for scrumptious meringue cookie sandwiches. Salted Caramel FillingPeppermint Chocolate Filling
The salted caramel recipe is the same multi-purpose and versatile one I call upon for filling everything from pastry cases to macarons to layer cakes to shortbread cookies (such as ). ...it's as much pastry shorthand for chic as it is outrageously moreish. And I am thrilled to know I am not alone in my addiction; after yesterday's session, a very lovely lady, L, came up to me to say "I'm going home to make buckets of this tonight!" Two others in attendance, S and D - good friends, super stylish, and self-confessed Francophiles - I already know to adore the stuff as the subject is a recurring theme in all our conversations! here Caramel au beurre sal
The fillings can also be used for meringue . Alternatively, the shells can be finished with preserves, marmalades or citrus curds of your choice. tartlet shells
And of course, there's mini . Filled with whipped cream and red fruit macerated with framboise or kirsch and a splash of rosewater, it is as easy and festive as dessert gets. pavlovas
A slightly more time-consuming project would be meringue boxes - beautiful edible holders for scoops of ice cream or sorbet.
Friday, October 24, 2008
Holiday Baked Treats - Classes at Shermay's Cooking School
Aside from I'll be teaching is , a demo class, at on (Saturday), (Sunday), (Saturday) and (Sunday) - the has all the necessary details. For all inquiries, please call the school at or email If is geared towards gifting, this baked treats class is all about the joys of the bountiful holiday table. Many of the recipes are designed for entertaining, and make for a magnificent grand finale to a festive meal. is a super easy and versatile recipe that's equally good served hot or cold. Served hot, it has a light texture, not unlike souffl , and is delicious simply accompanied by pouring cream.
the candy class
Valrhona Equatoriale Noire 55% Chocolate Pudding
Served cold - topped with whipped cream and a shower of chocolate shavings - it becomes denser and richer in texture, not unlike a chocolate mousse.
Moist and moreish served with and a generous dose of yet more on the side, is a surefire crowd-pleaser. Sticky Date & Toffee Bundt,Brown Sugar Whipped CreamSticky Toffee Sauce
The recipe can also be baked as individual - you may find this a more practical solution if you are hosting a large party. The mini puds also make a wonderful addition to a dessert buffet table, allowing guests to help themselves easily. Sticky Date & Toffee Mini Puds
In , cocoa is used subtly, as if it were a spice, adding nuance and complexity to the flavour of the gingerbread. The chocolatey kick comes from the extravagant addition of Valrhona chocolate pearls. Chocolate Gingerbread Cupcakes with Valrhona Perles
I personally find the cupcakes lovely as they are, and prefer to skip the frosting entirely - all that's required to finish them is a dusting of icing sugar. While very fine served at room temperature, if you do get the opportunity, try them warm - I'll sheepishly admit that when a tray of these emerge from the oven, I'm quite capable of demolishing half the batch at one go.
-light, airy, crisp and a snap to make - round out the recipe lineup. Valrhona Cocoa Meringue Kisses
Mastering the meringue technique alone opens up many other possibilities, including the ultimate B che de No l decorations, these . Of course, you could simply enjoy them as cookies! Meringue Mushrooms
I'll have more details up in a separate post on the These include: Techniques for shaping/piping Poinsettias, Shells, Porcupines etc Salted Caramel Filling; Peppermint Chocolate Filling How to shape and fill with preserves, curds etc of your choice How to shape and fill with flavoured whipped cream and fresh fruit of your choice How to construct a beautiful edible container for holding scoops of sorbet, ice cream etcBonus Section - The Art of Meringue: A Guide to Fabulous Holiday Ideas.
Meringue Cookie Shapes
Recipes for filling Meringue Cookie Sandwiches
Meringue Tartlet Shells
Sunday, October 19, 2008
Sweets For Your Sweet
As mentioned , I'll be teaching , a demo class, at . Only 2 more sessions of this class will be held, on (Saturday) and (Sunday) - the has all the necessary details. For all inquiries, please call the school at or email
here Holiday Candy Shop Shermay's Cooking School 1 November 2008 2 November 2008 November schedule +65 6479 8442 shermaycs@yahoo.com.sg
It was with mileage in mind that the recipe pack for this class was designed - grasping one set of techniques/recipes thus leads to other possibilities. So in addition to the , I've included a bonus section with extra recipes, ideas and serving suggestions. key recipes demonstrated at class
With the season of gifting round the corner, my personal favourite in the lineup of ideas is a (pictured above) - the difference being that both the (made from nutty wholemeal flour, brown sugar, honey and cinnamon) and have been crafted from scratch. Packaged together with tablets of , I can't think of a more fun and delicious DIY gift.A thoughtful touch is including in your gift tag instructions for assembling and toasting the  these nostalgic snacks are the perfect marriage of crisp and gooey, molten chocolate and vanilla perfume...the ultimate luxurious spin on a comforting and familiar treat.S'mores KitGraham CrackersMadagascar Bourbon Vanilla Bean MarshmallowsValrhona Equatoriale Noire 55% Dark Chocolate Smores
A proper cup of , rich, thick and smooth with , deserves nothing less than to be topped by a . Hot ChocolateValrhona Araguani 72% Dark ChocolateMadagascar Bourbon Vanilla Bean Marshmallow
combines the best of 2 recipes  the ease of the instant fudge method as illustrated by the , and the scrumptiousness of homemade marshmallows. Rocky Road Fudge (Valrhona Equatoriale Noire 55% Dark Chocolate Fudge studded with Madagascar Bourbon Vanilla Bean Marshmallows & Pecans)Mocha Walnut Fudge
Homemade are yummy all on their own, as the bases for , or given a dressier finish by being dipped in a . Graham CrackersS'moresValrhona Equatoriale Noire 55% Dark Chocolate Glaze
Likewise, the smartens up shards of  think of it as the uptown cousin of that supermarket candy aisle guilty pleasure. Valrhona Equatoriale Noire 55% Dark Chocolate GlazeHoneycomb Crunch
are yet another fabulous use of this addictive candy. The is intense and potent - made without dairy products (which can obscure the complex savours of an excellent dark chocolate), it is a chocolate purist's frozen dessert dream. To cut the bittersweetness, I like it served with and . Honeycomb Crunch SundaesValrhona Araguani 72% Dark Chocolate SorbetButterscotch SauceHoneycomb Crunch
Sunday, September 28, 2008
Holiday Candy Shop - Classes at Shermay's Cooking School
I'll be teaching Holiday Candy Shop, a demo class, at on (Saturday) and (Sunday) - the has all the necessary details. For all inquiries, please call the school at or email I think the awesome thing about candy and confections is that they really lend themselves well to gifting. Many recipes keep nicely and can be prepared in advance, giving one ample time to have a little think about packaging, making them a joy both to present and to receive. The other awesome thing, of course, is their old-time charm - it is likely many recipients of your handcrafted candies will be utterly amazed; it's simply not something most folks think of as do-able at home! But the truth is, candy recipes can be beautifully simple. One road leads to many; mastering one particular technique or recipe very often opens up other possibilities. It was with this in mind that the following line-up was designed. In addition to a comprehensive recipe pack detailing the key recipes demonstrated at class, I've included a bonus section with extra recipes, ideas and serving suggestions. are not only delicious, but are terrific in everything from a luxurious cup of hot chocolate to S'mores to Rocky Road fudge. Because the mixture is set in a large sheet, there's nothing to stop you from cutting out stars or any other shape instead of standard cubes.
Shermay's Cooking School 18 October 2008 19 October 2008 October schedule +65 6479 8442 shermaycs@yahoo.com.sg
Madagascar Bourbon Vanilla Bean Marshmallows
My favourite variations flavour-wise are , and . The latter, in particular, are stunning presented as laniards, inspired by the that's a ubiquitous fixture on the candy trolley of many a chic Parisian fine dining establishment and purveyed by the very best , lifted out of heavy apothecary jars with silver tongs and cut to order with a flourish. Peppermint MarshmallowsRosewater Strawberry Marshmallowsguimauveconfiseries
Adore the crunchy centres of a certain famous candy bar? Heres how you can make . Apart from enjoying alone, these candies can also be dipped in a dark chocolate glaze, or treated like nougatine and crushed over scoops of ice cream or sorbet. I especially adore it with darkly seductive chocolate sorbet, brought over the top with rich butterscotch sauce. Honeycomb Crunch
Conventional recipes for fudge tend to be complex operations  a candy thermometer is a must so that the mixture does not overcook. Unless a certain amount of care is taken, the mixture can turn out overly grainy  not a desirable trait. And after cooking, the mixture needs to be beaten very well. This is an unconventional instant fudge recipe that's extremely simple and fast to prepare yet turns out exquisitely creamy fudge  no need for a candy thermometer, and certainly no need for elbow grease! It's also a great template for experimenting with different milk or dark chocolates, extracts, nuts and dried fruits; a wonderful variation on the theme is Rocky Road fudge. Mocha Walnut Fudge with Valrhona Jivara Lact e 40% Milk Chocolate
are loosely based on an Italian number known as . It tickles me to no end to think of these as fig salami  the fruit, nut and chocolate mixture is shaped into logs before being sliced, and the slices really do look like salami! Subtly spiced, intriguingly fruity and studded with pistachios, this not-too-sweet little bite is an elegant accompaniment to a postprandial digestif or espresso. Spiced Fig, Pistachio & Valrhona Manjari 64% Dark Chocolate Logslonza di fichi
I'll have more details up in a separate post on the bonus section. Recipes, ideas and serving suggestions include:
Toasted Homemade Graham Crackers topped with Valrhona Equatoriale Noire 55% Dark Chocolate and Madagascar Bourbon Vanilla Bean Marshmallows  Valrhona Equatoriale Noire 55% Dark Chocolate Fudge studded with Madagascar Bourbon Vanilla Bean Marshmallows & Pecans  The ultimate hot chocolate with Valrhona Araguani 72% Dark Chocolate, topped with Madagascar Bourbon Vanilla Bean Marshmallows  Valrhona Araguani 72% Dark Chocolate Sorbet topped with Honeycomb Crunch & Butterscotch Sauce  Honeycomb Crunch dipped in Valrhona Equatoriale Noire 55% Dark Chocolate Glaze - Homemade Graham Crackers dipped in Valrhona Equatoriale Noire 55% Dark Chocolate Glaze
Smores