Golf Vacations to Las Vegas
Las Vegas member packages and vacation travel.
Las Vegas Golf Packages Vacations Deals
Las Vegas Wedding, Las Vegas Wedding Chapel, Las Vegas Wedding Package, Wedding in Las Vegas...
Romance, elegance, beauty, and sophistication -- all hallmarks of the wedding of your dreams. With the unhurried and personalized atmosphere of a traditional wedding provided by Viva Las Vegas Wedding Chapel, that long-awaited wedding of your dreams becomes a reality. For behind the dazzle and the bright lights of Las Vegas lies a romantic, serene world that speaks only to you -- a wedding that makes you and your wedding day the center of the universe.
Las Vegas Wedding
You're in Las Vegas to get hooked, so why not take the plunge with Las Vegas style! It's your lucky day, showgirls, sequins, slots fill this Las Vegas themed wedding with all the glitz and glamour from this 24/7 hour town! Choose from one of the following a Showgirl, Cocktail Waitress, or Chippendale waiter as your wedding usher. Add Marilyn Monroe for $250 or any other additional characters please call chapel on cost. Of course, included is Las Vegas memorabilia, Elvis singing & performing the ceremony, and theatrical lights and fog. Price for this wedding package is $650.00
Las Vegas Wedding - Red Rock
About 65 million years ago a strong earthquake rumbled under the southern Nevada desert, and two of the earth's plates collided with such force that part of one plate was shoved up over much younger sandstone formations. The result is the Keystone Thrust Fault, part of which is seen at Red Rock Canyon, a spectacular piece of geology, 17 miles west of Las Vegas.A modern visitor center overlooks the recreation area with information on the geology and wildlife of the preserve. Red Rock Canyon covers nearly 200,000 acres of multicolored sandstone and limestone, canyons and mountains, washes and waterfalls, and a variety of desert flora and fauna. The entire Red Rock area is laced with hiking trails for those who feel most energetic.
Las Vegas Wedding - Lake Las Vegas Wedding
For a special memory to last a lifetime, we've chosen one of Las Vegas' newest and most exclusive resorts and combined it with an incredible wedding or renewal of vows and yacht reception. Welcome to Lake Las Vegas! Two limousines will transport you and up to 14 guests to the Lake Las Vegas Resort, which offers a beautiful backdrop of the Ritz-Carlton Hotel, the Hyatt Regency Hotel, MonteLago Village, multi-million dollar homes, and several golf courses, all surrounding ten miles of beautiful shoreline. Your wedding can be held at one of three venues: the "Lady of the Lake," a 60-foot private luxury yacht; the Beach of Mira Lago at Reflection Bay; or the beautiful Garden area at Reflection Bay. After preparing for the wedding in the bride's room aboard the "Lady of the Lake," the bride and her attendants can make a grand arrival by yacht for the beach or garden wedding. Once the ceremony is complete, the wedding party and guests can board the yacht for the reception. Aboard the "Lady of the Lake," white-gloved waiters will be serving Champagne, Wedding Cake, and a full six-selection hors d'oeuvres reception. Flowers include a Large Cascade Bouquet, Three-rose Romantic Posey, and two boutonnieres. Select from either Fresh or Silk flowers, Rose color, and Ribbon color. A Photographer will accompany you to your ceremony and reception. You will receive 36-4x6 photos.
The "Lady of the Lake" has a maximum occupancy of 30 people. Please let us know if you need additional accommodations for extra guests.
 