 
These coming weeks promise brutally dangerous high temperatures !!!  (July, August 2006)
 Please be careful with your pets during the next month or so when the US experiences the worst part of summer. and make sure that if they have to be outside that they have shade, water and some kind of a breeze (sounds silly but a fan for their comfort is not a bad thing, neighbors may think you've lost it). If you have a COOL garage and can use it for the dog, then make the animal as comfortable as you can.Bring your pets in when it is hotDO NOT LEAVE YOUR DOGS OUTDOORS UNATTENDED FOR ANY LENGTH OF TIME DURING THE HEAT OF THE DAY--THEY CAN SUFFER OF A HEAT STROKE AND DIE IN AN EXTREMELY SHORT PERIOD OF TIME!!!!
Keep our furries safe, they cannot sweat it out like us! The heat is on!
Heat Stroke in Dogs/Cats
Working up a good sweat in the hot summer months may be good for you, but it can lead to heat stroke in your pet and kill him in a matter of minutes. Your pet's normal body temperature is 99.5 to 102.5 degrees Fahrenheit. If it rises to 105 or 106 degrees, the pet is at risk for developing heat exhaustion.Heat stroke is a dangerous condition that takes the lives of many animals every year.
If the body temperature rises to 107 degrees, your pet has entered the dangerous zone of heat stroke. With heat stroke, irreversible damage and death can occur.
Heat stroke is a condition arising from extremely high body temperature, which leads to nervous system abnormalities (such as lethargy, weakness, collapse or coma). Abnormally high body temperature (also called hyperthermia) develops after increased muscular activity with impaired ability to give off heat due to high heat and humidity or respiratory obstruction. Heat-related illnesses, including heat stroke, heat exhaustion and heat cramps can occur after exposure to extremely high environmental temperatures. These illnesses occur in all mammals and can be prevented by taking proper precautions.
Here are some cold summer facts: The temperature ina parked car can reach 160 degrees in a matter of minutes, even with partially opened windows. Andany pet exercising on a hot, humid day, even with plenty of water, can become overheated.Overheating often leads to heat stroke. As a pet owner, you should know the dangers of overheating and what to do to prevent it. You should also know the signs of heat stroke and what to do if your pet exhibits those signs.
:At Even Higher Risk are
Puppies up to 6 months of age
dogs and cats (black color retains heat) Dogs that have a thick coat, heart and lung problems or a short muzzle are at greater risk for heat stroke . Overweight pets. Pets that are overexerted during exercise. Pets that are ill or receiving certain medications. Pets with short, wide heads like pugs, English bulldogs, Boston terriers. Dogs with airway obstructive diseases. Pets with pre-existing fever. Pets that are dehydrated. Pets with poor circulation due to cardiovascular or other underlying disease. Older pets (large breed dogs over 7 years of age, small breed dogs over 14 years of age) Pets with heart disease.Black
If your pet is overheating, he will appear sluggish and unresponsive. He may appear disorientated. The gums, tongue and conjunctiva of the eyes may be bright red and he will probably be panting hard. He may even start vomiting. Eventually he will collapse, seizure and may go into a coma. If your pet exhibits any of these signs, treat it as an emergency and call your veterinarian immediately. On the way to your veterinary hospital, you can cool your pet with wet towels, spray with cool water from a hose or by providing ice chips for your pet to chew (providing he is conscious). and . . or partially open windows with a breeze) during extremely hot weather. (even with the windows partially rolled down) for any reason at any time. Provide your pet with plenty of fresh water and plenty of shade. Take extra care with puppies and kittens. If possible, allow your pet to acclimate gradually to high temperatures. After traveling to a warmer climate, allow your pet several days to become acclimated before allowing any vigorous exercise. Make sure outside cats and dogs have access to shade. Allow your cat and dog to have access to cooler areas of the house.
Signs:
Rapid panting Bright red tongue Red or pale gums Thick, sticky saliva Depression Weakness Dizziness Vomiting - sometimes with blood Diarrhea Shock Coma
There are several things you can do to prevent heat related problems for your pet:
Monitor outdoor temperatureminimize your pet's activity on hot, humid days
Remove the pet from the hot area immediately.
Limit sun exposure during the hours of 11 AM to 3 PM on hot days
Walk or exercise your pet in the morning or evening.
Keep your pet in a comfortable environment (air-conditioned room
NEVER leave your pet in a carLeaving pets in a car during warm (not hot) weather is the most common cause of heat stroke.
Heat illness is common in the spring when the animal has not had sufficient time to acclimate to the warmer temperatures.
Our Cats