News
Ribbon-cutting on January 27 for Dutchess County Tourism Information Center in the Main Building of Vassar College
           
POUGHKEEPSIE, NY — Dutchess County Tourism and Vassar College are pleased to announce the opening of an official Dutchess County Tourism Information Center in the historic Main Building of Vassar College.
The Tourist Information Center will play a valuable role in the community, helping to create awareness about the county’s many tourism assets for both students and their families, the thousands of annual visitors to Vassar’s beautiful campus, as well as the college's more than 1,000 employees.
The brochure racks are full of literature on Dutchess County lodging, arts, historic sites, outdoor spaces, and the center offers a computer terminal linking visitors to tourism information. There's also information about Vassar's many public facilities and offerings such as the Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center, the music department's year-round concert series, and the campus itself, a 1,000-acre designated arboretum that's home to more than two hundred species of trees, two buildings on the National Register of Historic Places, and an array of architectural designs. All information from Vassar College’s Tourist Information Center is provided free-of-charge.
Please join us for a ribbon-cutting ceremony on Tuesday, January 27th at noon.  Light refreshments will be provided.
Individuals with disabilities requiring accommodations at Vassar should contact the Office of Campus Activities at (845) 437-5370. Directions to the Vassar campus are available at . www.vassar.edu/directions
Vassar College is a highly selective, coeducational, independent, residential liberal arts college founded in 1861.
Dutchess County Tourism is the officially designated marketing organization for Dutchess County. DCT is a division of the Dutchess County Economic Development Corporation and is funded by the County of Dutchess. Dutchess County Tourism is dedicated to bringing tourism dollars to area businesses by promoting the region across the country and around the world. It continues to develop new programs to keep Dutchess County in the forefront of visitor destinations, helping to make tourism a leading industry in the county. For more information, visit www.DutchessTourism.com
Posted Friday, January 9, 2009
Campus News