     Prominent AV Contractor seeking Account Manager for corporate office in Chandler AZ.Description:        
                                 
EXPERIENCED Account Manager needed for our new corporate office in Chandler, AZ.  Must be organized, able to multi-task, have attention to detail, excellent phone presence, be deadline specific, able to work in fast paced environment, be a self motivated and driven individual with previous A/V or Tradeshow experience.
All interested candidates should send resume in confidence to jimwurm@eaca.com.
 
INDUSTRY NEW S
Apple Pulls Out of MacworldJanuary will be the last Macworld Conference & Expo that Apple exhibits in, and the company's CEO, Steve Jobs, will not deliver the keynote as he has every year, according to Apple officials.  <Tradeshow Week> 
IAEE and NTP form co-location partnership at TS2The International Association of Exhibitions and Events (IAEE) and National Trade Productions (NTP), owner and producer of the TS2 conference and expo, have formed a co-location partnership at the 2009 TS2 show, which will be held July 20-23 at McCormick Place in Chicago. <Expo Web News> 
MGM Mirage Sells Treasure IslandMGM Mirage sold Treasure Island Las Vegas to Ruffin Acquisition, owned by Phil Ruffin, for $775 million. Treasure Island completed a renovation in August and has 18,000 square feet of meeting and convention space, as well as 2,885 rooms and suites. <Tradeshow Week>  
Hasselback Becomes CEO of the ‘Big Enchilada’ as Lowell Retires, president and CEO of Diversified Business Communications (DBC), became CEO of parent company Diversified Communications at the start of the New Year following the retirement of David Lowell. Lowell stepped down on December 31, 2008 after 30 years with the company, but will remain on the board of directors. DBC produces 80 face-to-face events in North America, Europe and Australia. Its trade show brands include , Hasselback has led the events, publishing and eMedia activities of Diversified Communications since 2003 and will now oversee all of the company’s division  <Trade Show Executive> Nancy HasselbackThe International Boston Seafood ShowAll Things Organic and Kosherfest.
 
THOUGHT FOR THE WEEK
 
 
-- Anne Morrow Lindbergh    American author (1906-2001)
Publisher's statement.The Showfloor Buzz is a publication of the Exhibitor Appointed Contractor Association (EACA) which is dedicated to "raising the level of service excellence on the showfloor."    
This publication is sent free of charge to all EACA members each Wednesday, and to non-members four weeks later.   Annual subscriptions to current issues of the Buzz are available to non-members for $49.95.    Please send subscription requests to .