[ | Material Artwork ] Electronic Artwork
Material Artwork
DISCLAIMER:Some of the items that you will see below--particularly the movie logos--closely resemble images belonging to actual companies. They were created only as parodies to be used in the Lloyd Rotation Movie (1999), a non-profit venture of Lloyd House, Caltech. I assure you that beyond that use, no further consideration of malice nor libel were intended towards their respective companies. I also assure you that they will not be used to gain any means of profit by me. If you belong to one of those companies and find such published works in violation of your copywrited claims, please , with proof of affiliation and authority, so that I may remove them from this site.direct monetary notify me
These images were meant to be print out or used in some kind of non-digital material. Such material could take the form of posters, t-shirts, and even book covers and movie/video promos.
Some of the images were created at a larger size (like the t-shirt designs and movie promos), but to conserve disk space on my account (if I should ever need it), I've shrunken them down. If for some wacky reason you *really! really!* love a particular image, you may me to request it. Serious requests only, please. email
20th Century Lloyd - movie promo
The Lloyd Rotation Movie (or "Project" for 1999) Directors wanted to make spoofs of a bunch of movies made over the summer for the incoming freshman. To fully do that, they wanted to emulate everything about them, even the movie industry logos associated with each spoof. They came to me with the task, and I had a ball with it. =) This is the last one that I made and, I personally think, the best. Everything was done from scratch as I rendered the entire structure in 3D Studio Max, the background in Bryce 3D, and the finishing touches in Photoshop. It would have been nice if it was animated (spotlights), but I didn't have time to do that.
Goldstone Pictures - movie promo
This promo and the following 2 went by as a blur, since they weren't too difficult to produce. This one, I think, is the worst since I had the least amount of referring resource and the least room for creativity. All that and it was coupled with me being confused as to what it actually was. (Somehow, I thought the Touchstone had the animated archer logo... could that have been Artisan? I dunno.) The lightning bolt in the original Touchstone has been replaced by the 2 "L"s that poorly resemble lightning. Gold is the color of Lloyd House.
In the Beginning - book cover
Yes, I like Babylon 5, too. Figured out the pattern, yet? Anyways, I bought the book (which I haven't read, yet), but I hated the cover. Instead, I decided to make my own cover with all the cool images from the movie. I don't remember where I got the images anymore, but I compiled them into this nice book cover. I must've mis-measured the dimensions of the book since it never did cover it all the way. If you'd like to have this cover for your book, please email me for the file, since the image here has been reduced in size. You will need a good color printer.
Lloyd(Mount) Pictures - movie promo
Here, I replaced the mountain with a picture of our "traditional" Christmas-time prank. Millikan Library is this ...ehrm... fallus (excuse my French) in the center of the campus. One year, we decided to string up lights to make it ...ehrm... more visible. Other people from Lloyd who have homepages have the original image somewhere.