...defining the 21st century's technological research university
Life at Missouri S&T
On-campus living offers more than just a place to sleep or study. It’s where friends are made, study groups are formed and close-knit communities become extended families. Residence halls and houses sponsor dozens of formal and informal activities each year, including dances, movie nights and more; making it easy to build life-long friendships. You’re sure to find people who will introduce you to cultures, ideas, cuisines and ways of thinking you’ve never explored before.
For the first two years, students are required to live in campus-approved housing, including the university’s six residence halls, the Residential College, many fraternity and sorority chapter houses and the . Some upperclassmen choose to live in a residence hall throughout their college career. Each hall establishes its own guidelines through hall government organizations that give students opportunities to create, interpret and enforce community policies and develop leadership skills. Campus Christian House
Enjoying some of the comforts of home is important to our students. Missouri S&T’s are designed to provide many of these same conveniences. Rooms include comfortable furniture, local phone access and an Ethernet connection. Students have access to TV, study lounges, laundry facilities, a copy machine, an ice machine, vending machines and a convenience store. Fitness centers and Computer Learning Centers are available in many buildings. All Missouri S&T students are allowed to have cars on campus. The is a short walk from all on-campus housing if you feel the need for a pick-up game of basketball, racquetball or the indoor jogging track. residence halls Student Recreation Center
Campus offers a wide-variety of of where and what to eat. You can grab a bagel and coffee at Cup ‘O Joe, get made-to-order Chinese or pasta at the Havener Center or load your plate with traditional fare at one of two dining halls on campus. A short walk reveals a smorgasbord of ethnic and local restaurants. choices
Freshman Learning Communities
If you’re looking for a unique residential experience, consider a learning community. Communities are groups of students who share the same academic or career interests. Missouri S&T’s co-enrolls students together in blocks of classes together and offers special opportunities to develop study skills. Students involved in a Holistic Community commit to making healthy choices in their personal lives. Voyager Learning Community
Students living in the form six unique learning communities that challenge their intellect and creativity. Working closely with each community’s faculty sponsor and other community members, students go beyond the classroom to discover innovative ways to apply learning. These six unique learning communities bring in phenomenal guest speakers, conduct research projects, take industry tours around the Midwest and more! Currently, the Residential College offers learning communities centered around: Residential College
Global Research