Comments (0)
Knowing how to properly use the phone is a skill children should develop from an early age. Not only is it important to know how to be polite while on the phone and how to properly take a message and convey messages, but kids should also know how to use the phone in the event of an emergency.
The following are some ways you can teach your child how to properly use the phone and some of the things you should go over:
Some phones will immediately connect when you pick them up. Others, you have to push a talk or accept button. Make sure your child knows how to properly operate the phone. You can start with the basics, such as how to answer it and then hang up. As the child gets older, you can show him or her how to operate some of the features, like call waiting and so forth.How to operate the phone.
Your child should also know how to answer the phone and carry on a basic conversation while on the phone. This includes saying hello, asking who it is if the caller does not identify himself, and then asking them to hold while they get you or taking a message in the event you are not home.How to answer the phone.
In addition to knowing what to say and when, your child should know basic phone manners, like not screaming into the phone when calling the parent and speaking in a clear, pleasant tone.Phone etiquette.
Your child should know how to call 911, what information to give when calling, and what situations require that. In addition, your child should also know who to call in case of an emergency, like a parents cell phone or work number.What to do in an emergency.
Teaching your child how to use the phone
The best way to teach your child how to use and answer the phone is just through practice. Decide what you want your child to say, and then practice by role playing. You can help your child practice by calling your house phone on your cell phone and letting him or her answer the phone. Or, you can let your child answer the phone when someone like another parent or grandparent is calling, so they can practice on a real caller.
A good starting point would be a conversation like the following:
Child: Hello? Caller: Hello. Is your mom home? Child: May I ask whos calling, please? Caller: This is Mr. Smith from Smith Plumbing. Child: One moment, please. Ill get her.
Or, if you are not home or unable to come to the phone, the child should say something along the lines of, She cant come to the phone right now. Can I take a message? Make sure the child knows it isnt necessary to tell the caller what you are doing or where you are, simply that you are busy and cant talk right now.
Knowing how to use the phone and phone etiquette are basic skills that you should teach your child when they are young enough to carry on a conversation and follow basic prompts. The above are some things your child should know and learn when you teach him or her how to use the phone.
Categories: