Jump to: , navigation search
Earliest printed example of a classical T and O map (by Guntherus Ziner, , ), illustrating the first page of chapter XIV of the . It shows the continents as domains of the sons of - Sem (), Iafeth () and Cham ().
The Hereford Mappa Mundi Hereford Cathedral
A or or map (, orb or circle of the earth), is a type of , sometimes also called a or a because one of the earliest known representations of this sort is attributed to , an 8th-century Spanish . The map appeared in the prologue to his twelve books of commentaries on the .T and O mapO-TT-Oorbis terrae medieval world map Beatine map Beatus map Beatus of Li bana monk Apocalypse
The T-O map represents the physical world as first described by the 7th century scholar in his (chapter 14, ): Isidore of Seville Etymologiae de terra et partibus
The [inhabitated] mass of solid land is called round after the roundness of a circle, because it is like a wheel [...] Because of this, the Ocean flowing around it is contained in a circular limit, and it is divided in three parts, one part being called Asia, the second Europe, and the third Africa.Orbis a rotunditate circuli dictus, quia sicut rota est [...] Undique enim Oceanus circumfluens eius in circulo ambit fines. Divisus est autem trifarie: e quibus una pars Asia, altera Europa, tertia Africa nuncupatur.
Although Isidore taught in the that the Earth was 'round', his meaning was ambiguous and some writers think he referred to a disc-shaped Earth. However, other writings by Isidore make it clear that he considered the Earth to be globular. Indeed, the theory of a had always been the prevailing assumption among the learned since at least , who had divided the spherical earth into , with a at the , a deadly near the , and a mild and habitable between the two.Etymologiae [1] [2] spherical earth Aristotle zones of climate frigid clime poles torrid clime equator temperate clime
The T and O map is representing only the top-half of the spherical Earth. It was presumably tacitly considered a convenient of the inhabited parts, the northern temperate half of the globe. Since the southern temperate clime was considered uninhabited, or unattainable, there was no need to depict them on a world map. It was then believed that no one could cross the torrid equatorial clime and reach the unknown lands on the other half of the globe. These imagined lands were called . [3] projection antipodes [4]
The is the , dividing the three , , and , and the is the encircling . was generally represented in the center of the map. Asia was typically the size of the other two continents combined. Because the sun rose in the east, Paradise (the Garden of Eden) was generally depicted as being in Asia, and Asia was situated at the top portion of the map.T Mediterranean continents Asia Europe Africa O Ocean Jerusalem
This qualitative and conceptual type of medieval could yield extremely detailed maps in addition to simple representations. The earliest maps had only a few cities and the most important bodies of water noted. The four sacred rivers of the were always present. More useful tools for the traveller were the , which listed in order the names of towns between two points, and the that did the same for harbours and landmarks along a seacoast. cartography holy land itinerary periplus
Later maps of this same conceptual format featured many rivers and cities of Eastern as well as Western Europe, and other features encountered during the . Decorative illustrations were also added in addition to the new geographic features. The most important cities would be represented by distinct fortifications and towers in addition to their names, and the empty spaces would be filled with mythical creatures. Crusades
Contents