Hotel discounts. Find and book Madrid Airport hotels. Click Here
Discounts of up to on Madrid Airport car rentals.65% Click Here
Reserve your Madrid Airport car parking space online. Click Here
Book your Madrid hotel and flights in one convenient purchase. Click Here
Great savings on flights to and from Madrid Airport. Click Here
Madrid Barajas International Airport Ground Transportation
Madrid Barajas Airport (MAD) Ground Transportation
Introduction
Madrid Barajas Airport (MAD) is served by taxi, Metro and bus. Transfers between Terminals 1, 2, 3 and 4 are by shuttle bus. (Additionally, to get from Terminal 4 to its satellite T4S, travellers use a special train service.)
Transportation Time
Airport authorities advise those travelling to Terminal 4 to consult with their airline or agent on how much time to allow for the journey. Since Terminal 4 is not yet connected to the Metro network journey time will be longer than for journeys to the older terminals. The terminal is also very large, so regular travellers may have to adjust their schedules.
Metro
The Madrid Metro system is efficient and covers most of the city. From the Airport trains run between 6:00 am and 1:45 am every day. Metro Line 8 runs towards the centre (direction Nuevos Ministerios), but passengers have to change at Mar de Cristal (Line 4) to reach the most central destinations.
The Airport metro stop is in Terminal 2, reasonably close to Terminals 1 and 3. The entrance is on the lower floor of Terminal 2, off a corridor that also leads to Parking Lot P2. The stop is well signposted.
Although a Metro connection is being built to Terminal 4, it is not yet ready.
Train Services
Passengers wishing to connect with the main train stations for travel outside Madrid should use the Metro. There is no direct airport link to the main rail network.
Taxi Services
Official taxi stands are located outside the ground floor in all terminals. In Terminals 2 and 3 the stands are located close to the baggage claims.
Journey time to central Madrid is 25 to 30 minutes, depending on traffic, which can be heavy. On starting the journey, passengers should check that the taxi driver has set the meter running. At its end, passengers may ask for a receipt. Note that passengers should take a taxi from a stand rather than from unofficial drivers offering taxis inside the terminal.
Bus Services
Madrid bus services are (usually) efficient.
Line 204 buses stop at the Terminal 4 Arrivals floor and link the airport with the Avenida de Amica. Passengers should use this service to travel between Terminal 4 and the city centre.
Line 201 stops at Terminal 4 Arrivals and connects the terminal with Barajas Metro. Passengers in Terminal 4 who wish to travel by Metro should take this bus, or go to Terminal 2 for the airport Metro.
Line 200 stops at Terminals 1, 2 and 3 and links the airport with the Avenida de Amica. The bus stops are located at Arrivals/Departures. Passengers should use this service to travel between Terminals 1, 2 and 3 and the city centre.
Line 101 links Barajas Metro, Terminals 1 and 2, and various other convenient stops.
Madrid buses start early and stop late. However, buses usually do not run in the period between 2:00 am and 6:00 am.
/td>