How To Do Your Own Online Tax Filing
...And Save Money
...And Feel Smarter Than Your Accountant
 
 First, take 60 seconds to read this page.
 Then try our easy online tax filing software at no charge.
 If you like what you see, pay one low fee to complete your return and...
 Wait for your refund to arrive - it won't take long. 
Or you could save yourself 50 seconds by clicking right now to try out our online tax filing program for FREE. You've got nothing to lose except your accountant's steep fees.
 
The program is called Complete Tax because...
  
It contains everything you need to prepare and file taxes online, both federal and state taxes included.
  
Sure there are other ways to prepare your taxes, but the options aren't pretty:   
You could wade through the IRS paperwork while slowing going gray.
You could go back to that accountant and spend several unpleasant hours paying him to torture you with numbers talk.
 You could file taxes online using software that costs twice what ours does and gives you less. 
Or you could choose the low cost option
  
  At IRS Tax Preparation, Complete Tax, you pay only a small online tax preparation fee for your federal and state return (which can be drawn automatically from your refund)  after your return is done. For our 2008 tax returns, there is a new very low pricing in effect for a very basic return. Also, if you live in a state that has no income tax, you only pay our low Federal return pricing, saving more money. We invite you to shop around for a lower price, but just make sure you look for online tax filing services that include both federal AND state returns. 
 
Because when you file taxes online with us, you get no surprises, no hidden fees.
  
Just one flat fee - for unlimited use of our user-friendly software that actually speaks your language: plain English. Plus it uses a handy question and answer format that walks you through your tax preparation and online tax filing, easy as pie.
  
How We Got "Love" and "Taxes" Into The Same Sentence
  
 People ourlove online tax filing software because they get so much free help doing their :  taxes 
 Free Tax Guide - answers the most common online tax filing questions.
 Free Email Support - from experienced accountants who will respond in an hour or less to help you file taxes online and get it right the first time, no missed deductions, no mistakes, no delays.
Nothing To Download - because our online tax filing software is web-based, meaning you can get started right now and return to your online file as often as you want.
Direct Deposit - your refund right into your bank account so you get your money in days, not weeks. You can even deduct our fee from your refund so you don't pay anything out of pocket.
Accurate Tax Calculation - 100% accuracy guaranteed, based on the answers you give to the questions.
Lowest Cost - to prepare and file taxes online. Check out the others then come back to us for affordable tax preparation: just one low fee for your federal and state returns.
  Try Complete Tax for free and pay only when you're ready to file.
 