:Eric Bana Joins JJ Abrams Star Trek Movie
Posted By Scott
According to Variety Eric Bana has signed on to play the villain in the upcoming Star Trek movie being directed by the esteemed JJ Abrams. Nothing is known about his character other then his name is Nero... distant cousin of Neo from the Matrix? All joking aside he plays a Romulan named Nero who sets out to kill Captain Kirk according to our friends at BeyondHollywood.
 
JJ Abrams told Star Trek Magazine that indeed, the upcoming Star Trek XI Movie will be about Captain Kirk. Will William Shatner play a role? Will be he the Kirk? Franky I think its unlikely. Hard to relaunch a series that way. Still no word on a plot at all at this point. "Star Trek, one of the most popular and successful franchises in the history of movies and television, returns to the big screen under the creative vision of J.J. Abrams, the force behind "Lost, "Alias and "Mission Impossible III for Paramount Pictures. The team behind the film will include Alex Kurtzman & Roberto Orci (Mission Impossible III ) who wrote the screenplay and will executive produce with Bryan Burk. JJ Abrams and "Lost co-creator Damon Lindelof will produce. The film will begin shooting this fall for a Christmas Day 2008 release. One of the most popular film and television franchises of all time, "Star Trek has encompassed 726 total episodes for television in six different series, beginning with the original 1966-1969 series created by Gene Roddenberry. The 10 "Star Trek films have grossed in excess of $1 billion at the worldwide box office. The original characters have been named among the 50 greatest TV characters of all time and the Enterprise has lent its name to two proposed spacecrafts. "If there's something I'm dying to see, it's the brilliance and optimism of Roddenberry's world brought back to the big screen, said Abrams. "Alex and Bob wrote an amazing script that embraces and respects Trek canon, but charts its own course. Our goal is to make a picture for everyone -- life-long fans and the uninitiated. Needless to say, I am honored and excited to be part of this next chapter of Star Trek." Brad Grey, chairman and CEO, Paramount Pictures, said, "We could not be more thrilled to be back in business with J.J. Abrams. The revival of the Star Trek franchise is an important part of Paramounts turnaround.
Dont hesitate to share your knowledge and . You can also syndicate our news and read it with any popular newsreader with the links above! Dont just read the news, interact and leave CommentsGot News? send us your news Comments?
 