[] edit Career
Still commonly referred to as , she was assigned to a position near in the James to protect the right flank of the .Yorktown Mulberry Island Confederate Peninsula Army
On and again on , Commander Tucker took down the river to a point about a mile and a half above , and opened fire on the Federal squadron at long range hoping to draw out some of the gunboats. The gambit was refused, but Tucker inflicted some minor damage. 13 September 1861 2 December Patrick Henry Newport News, Virginia
During the on in which destroyed the Federal warships and , attempted to take the latter's surrender but was fired upon by shore batteries, and took a shell in her steam chest which killed four men. Towed out of action long enough to make repairs, she soon resumed her former position. Battle of Hampton Roads 8 March 1862 Virginia USS Cumberland USS Congress Patrick Henry
During the historic action between and , fired long range at . The Confederate Congress later accorded special thanks to all officers and men for their gallant conduct during the two-day battle. 9 March 1862 Virginia USS Monitor Patrick HenryMonitor
was also present during some of s other actions and, in a daring night operation on , helped remove Confederate property from the before it was abandoned to the Federals.Patrick HenryVirginia' 5 May 1862 Norfolk Navy Yard
After the surrender of on , the James River Squadron, including , retired up the river to where pursuing Federal ships were repulsed on . Norfolk, Virginia 10 May 1862 Patrick Henry Drewry's Bluff 15 May
was designated an academy ship in May and underwent appropriate alterations to this end. In October , housed the floating at Drewry's Bluff, where instruction for 52 began under the superintendency of . Numbers later increased to sixty, with thirteen teachers in attendance. Sometimes she took part in action with the midshipmen on board.Patrick Henry 1862 1863 Patrick Henry Confederate States Naval Academy midshipmen Lieutenant William Harwar Parker
When Richmond was evacuated on , was burned to prevent capture. Her cadets were charged with the delivery of a treasury of some CS$500,000 to the new government seat of . Each was rewarded with $40 in gold. 3 April 1865 Patrick Henry Danville, Virginia