Voyager Expanded Learning Website Gets New Look
Posted on June 4, 2008  Filed Under
Internet
DALLAS, June 4 /PRNewswire/ — The web address remains the same, but the look has definitely changed for Voyager Expanded Learning’s website (http://www.voyagerlearning.com). The company launched the freshly designed site today with updated, more in-depth product specific information, as well as many other new features, making the site easier to navigate for visitors.
A few additional features of the site include:
— Product-specific information on Summer Solutions, RtI, Funding, and State/District Initiatives. — Easy access for free trial offers on Ticket to Read(TM) and VmathLive(TM). — Expanded News and Media section — Voyager Connection electronic magazine — Google-based search engine
“We are thrilled with the new look and updated features and benefits to http://www.voyagerlearning.com ” says Ron Klausner, president of Voyager Expanded Learning. “Websites are a major tool used by educators when deciding on the best education solutions and it is important that we continue to provide the most up-to-date information on our programs and make ours as easy to use as possible.”
To visit the new site, go to: http://www.voyagerlearning.com .
Voyager Expanded Learning
Voyager Expanded Learning provides core, intervention and supplemental reading programs, as well as math intervention and ongoing professional development programs, for school districts throughout the United States. Founded in 1994, Voyager has delivered extended-time reading and basic skills intervention programs, as well as large-scale reading programs, to more than 1000 school districts in cities such as Buffalo, Miami, New York City, Richmond, Va., El Paso and Los Angeles, resulting in dramatically improved student performance. Voyager Expanded Learning, Inc. is a business unit of Voyager Learning Company (OTC: VLCY.PK) and based in Dallas, Texas. For more information, please visit http://www.voyagerlearning.com or call 1-888-399-1995.
SOURCE Voyager Learning Company