> > culpeper in photos and discover the history and beauty of the Town and County. The historic photos toward the end recall both the conflict and community spirit of Culpeper's past. Click on any of the individual images to start a slide-show. Use the "arrows" in the upper right to move forward or backward. Use the "X" to close the slide-show. home about culpeper
TAKE A PHOTO TOUR OF CULPEPER
How to view these photos:
Welcome to Culpeper
Culpeper Visitors Center at The Depot in downtown Culpeper
Culpeper's 4th of July Classic Car Show
Downtown Culpeper is home to unique shops and restaurants
Davis Street is the heart of Downtown
Historic buildings and historic cars
Thyme Market, a delicious European-style market and eatery on Davis Street
Culpeper is the perfect blend of yesterday and today
Have a Girl's Day Out or a Tea Party at Tea, Lace & Roses
The Train Depot today carries Amtrak passengers and houses the Visitor Center
Foti's - among the Top 100 Restaurants in Washingtonian Magazine
Dining is world-class in Culpeper
Culpeper County Court House
Inside Culpeper County Court House
Culpeper National Cemetery
Hill Mansion is just one of Culpeper's charming historic homes
The Museum of Culpeper History is a Must-See
Enjoy educational displays and cultural exhibits at the Museum
The Museum of Culpeper History is home to many Civil War artifacts
Voices of the past speak loudly here
The History Room at the Culpeper County Library
Yowell Meadow Park in the heart of Culpeper
Yowell Meadow Park is the perfect place to relax and unwind
Uncle Sams enjoy the annual 4th of July Parade
Parade watchers enjoy Culpeper's biggest celebration - the 4th of July
Sons of the American Revolution honor their past
Fife and Drum marchers during Remembrance Days Weekend in April
Civil War reenactors during the annual Remembrance Days
Kids of all ages can enjoy life on the farm during the annual Harvest Days Farm Tour in October. (photo courtesy of Caron Higashi)
Culpeper County is home to award-winning vintages
Old House Vineyards - producer of delicious wines and fun family events
Enjoy wine tastings throughout the County
A great bottle of wine makes the perfect Culpeper souvenir
Chuck Miller brews his own (legal) Moonshine
Belmont Farms Distillery: the only legal moonshine distillery in Virginia
Rural charm and natural beauty abound
Culpeper is perfect in any season
Quiet country roads are great for touring
Culpeper offers great fishing spots
Equestrian enthusiasts can enjoy national championship events at Commonwealth Park
Bring your golf clubs to play a round of golf
Culpeper is the perfect base to explore the beautiful Blue Ridge Mountains
The Inn at Kelly's Ford offers accommodations and dining overlooking historic Kelly's Ford battlefield
Battle of Kelly's Ford marker
Reenactment of the Battle of Brandy Station
A marker at Cedar Mountain Battlefield overlooks the site of this famous Civil War battle
Exploring the Civil War battlefields is like taking a walk through the past
There's over 200 pieces of original Civil War-era graffiti on the walls of the Graffiti House
Historic Photos
Union supply wagon at corner of Main and Davis Streets - around 1862
Union camps in Culpeper, 1862
Culpeper Train Depot c.1880
View of old Culpeper Court House, corner of Main and Davis Streets, August 1862. Confederate soldiers are shown here being held prisoner following the Battle of Cedar Mountain.
Generals of the Army of the Potomac: Governor K. Warren, William H. French, George G. Meade, Henry J. Hunt, Andrew A. Humphreys, George Sykes - Culpeper, VA, September 1863
Scouts and Guides of the Army of the Potomac - Brandy Station, VA, March 1864
The first fluorescent streetlights south of the Mason Dixon Line were turned on in Culpeper in 1953. (photo courtesy of Museum of Culpeper History collection)
Operation Skyglow was held on Davis Street on November 13, 1953 to celebrate the first fluorescent streetlights south of the Mason Dixon Line. Organizers boasted that they had assembled the longest dinner table in the world. (photo courtesy of Museum of Culpeper History collection)
 