Winter 2008
Quality Journalism
The huge corporations that control the flow of news and information to the American people are endangering quality journalism.
Big Media have slashed budgets, eviscerated newsrooms and closed foreign bureaus. News outlets across the country have replaced real reporting with celebrity gossip, sports and weather. And instead of fulfilling their obligation to inform the public, the massive conglomerates that decide most of what we read, see and hear every day serve us junk news and mindless commentary that is cheap to produce.
Thats because Big Media only see journalism as a business  not as a public service. They don't want to invest resources in covering public affairs or in costly but essential investigative journalism that provides a vital check on our government and corporate leaders. Committed journalists working to hold leaders accountable and cover their communities are finding it harder to do their jobs.
Our democracy depends upon an informed public. As citizens, we need unbiased news from a free and independent press to hold government accountable and to prevent abuses of power.
Fighting for Press Freedom
Learn more about some of our recent campaigns to promote quality journalism:
During this critical election season, we launched , our citizen-driven campaign for better election coverage. Thousands of people from around the country weighed in on the performance of the candidates  and the media moderators  during the presidential and vice presidential debates. Rate the Debates
RatetheDebates.org
When police in St. Paul launched a violent crackdown on journalists covering the Republican National Convention in September 2008, Free Press launched a to pressure local officials to respect press freedom and to drop all charges against the journalists. Journalists Under Attack
The exposed a secret Pentagon program to spread pro-war propaganda by recruiting and planting military analysts in national newscasts. Free Press activists and allies responded with more than 100,000 letters to Congress demanding an investigation. Pentagon Propaganda
New York Times
This ongoing campaign aims to rid local television news of hidden corporate propaganda. Public pressure sparked an FCC investigation into "video news releases" masquerading as real journalism on dozens of local stations. No Fake News
Free Press is working to protect small and independent publishers from unfair postal rate increases. Stamp Out the Rate Hikes
.Help promote quality journalism! Become a Free Press e-activist
TAGS: