The Art of Looking Sideways
How to Buy
Order this book through . amazon.com
By Alan Fletcher
Reviewed by Michael McPherson
 
Graphic designers (presumably with the support of publishers) seem to have embraced the principle that size matters. First there was , Bruce Mau's cinder-block-size illustrated meditation/portfolio. And now, at more than a thousand pages and weighing in at slightly less than a large infant, we have Alan Fletcher's .Life StyleThe Art of Looking Sideways
 
One of the founding partners of the celebrated multidisciplinary design firm Pentagram, Fletcher is a consulting art director of the Phaidon Press, the book’s publisher. It was through Graphic Design: Visual Comparisons, a modest volume he and his pre-Pentagram partners, Bob Gill and Colin Forbes, authored and designed in the 1960s, that I first became aware of the expressive possibilities of graphic design. The good taste, agile wit, and sense of fun and play of that book are in full display in this career-capping tome.
 
The book is not designed to be read in the usual way, beginning-middle-end. is a vast assemblage of visual and verbal epiphanies, gathered during a lifetime of reading, looking, and collecting, a kind of on steroids. A quote from Balzac—”Strolling is the gastronomy of the eye. To walk is to vegetate, to stroll is to live,”—is apt, for the book is best experienced as a stroll, picking up this, pondering that, until the weight of insights overwhelms our ability to absorb. A self-described “visual jackdaw,” Fletcher encourages us to experience without analyzing, to relax our minds and to open our eyes.The Art of Looking SidewaysBartlett’s Familiar Quotations
 
In addition to the thousands of lines from Blake, Whitman, Goethe, et al., the book includes photographs, illustrations, cartoons, drawings from Fletcher’s sketchbooks, and other visual and mental bric-a-brac nested into 72 chapters, with titles like Composition, Symbols, Value, and Imaging. Occasionally, the quotations verge on the precious. Words from e. e. cummings, “always the beautiful answer who asks the more beautiful question,” inscribed on a single page in Fletcher’s expressively spiky writing, is the kind of thing that gives calligraphy a bad name. But such lapses are few. The inventive typographic interpretations of various texts are a treat, for Fletcher rarely repeats himself, and he is a master of matching typographic form with the voice and content of the words.
 
For his whole career, Alan Fletcher has practiced design with intelligence, curiosity, insight, and exuberance, and all those virtues are on display in this volume. Every page touches on the primal impulse to assemble the elements of the world into coherent and lively wholes, to . I am confident that many future designers will cite their first encounter with as a career-launching event.designThe Art of Looking Sideways
 
Michael McPherson is a partner and creative consultant at Corey McPherson Nash in Watertown, Massachusetts.
 
This review originally appeared in the Fall 2002 Design Management Review
 