Arizona's State Wildlife Action Plan: Comprehensive Wildlife Conservation Strategy
 
Download Arizona’s CWCS plan
Latest Information (updated May 9, 2007)
Arizona’s “Comprehensive Wildlife Conservation Strategy” (CWCS) was accepted by the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service’s National Acceptance Advisory Team in April 2006. The CWCS is the culmination of a 2-year effort during which Arizona Game and Fish Department solicited input from numerous experts, resource professionals, federal and state agencies, sportsmen groups, conservation organizations, Native American tribes, recreational groups, local governments, and private citizens and integrated those ideas and concerns into a single, comprehensive vision for managing Arizona’s fish, wildlife, and wildlife habitats over the next ten years.
 
Background
For over a decade, a coalition of more than 3,000 conservation organizations known as “Teaming With Wildlife” has labored to keep species from becoming endangered by increasing state and federal funding for wildlife conservation.  This effort culminated in 2001 when federal legislation established a new State Wildlife Grant (SWG) program.  SWG funds are used to support the needs of wildlife, their habitats, and related recreational and educational activities.  In order to continue receiving SWG funds, each of the 56 U.S. states and territories were required, by congress, to submit a CWCS plan for approval to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service.  Guidelines for developing the state plans and the were established by state fish and wildlife agencies working with the International Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies and the Teaming With Wildlife Committee. 8 required elements
Arizona’s CWCS is unlike existing recovery plans and other regulatory documents in that it builds on and complements existing plans and wildlife conservation projects that are already underway.  The plan outlines strategies and conservation actions aimed at promoting partnerships and coordinating efforts among all who hold a stake in conserving Arizona’s wildlife.  As such, the plan addresses the full array of wildlife and habitats but focuses on identifying and managing the “wildlife and biotic communities of greatest conservation need”.- Nationwide Vision [] - State Wildlife Grants Program [] - Guiding Principles [] - -
Additonal CWCS Information