Product Rating: (4.50)   # of Ratings: 2
Universal Nutrition, Universal Animal Cuts, 42 Paks
* Product pictures are subject to change.
Regular Price: $53.95
2 or more: 6 or more: 12 or more:$40.41
$40.00
Save an extra 5% on all Auto-Ship orders! Save time by receiving items with auto scheduled shipments. To sign up, simply pick a frequency.
Frequency:
Start and/or Stop your Auto-Shipments at anytime by either calling us at 1-800-909-4759 or by logging into your account.
VP27937Item Number:
Ultimate Body-BuildingMain Benefit:
Product Details
Cardio sucks. There's no beauty or grace in it. You're not moving huge weight. It's just painful. But you do it because you have to–a necessary evil. Whether you're preparing for a show or just trying to get in top condition, you need the raw power of Animal Cuts. Make no mistake about it, Animal Cuts is unlike anything out there. It's an uncompromising "cutting" supplement that has been designed to produce professional results for bodybuilding competitions. Unlike most conventional "fat burners" out there, Animal Cuts is more than just a thermogenic. It is a comprehensive and complete formula. Take a look at the leading fat burner. It might contain ephedrine, caffeine, possibly an aspirin–derivative, and a few other ingredients sprinkled in. Make no mistake about it–this is a thermogenic product and only a thermogenic product. These basic ingredients make up the classic E/C/A stack that most people find effective (up to 95% of all fat burners are based on this model). But the fact is, the E/C/A stack may not work well for everyone. Maybe you've been on the E/C/A stack for a while now. Maybe you drink a lot of coffee in the morning and soda throughout the day. The human body can easily become desensitized to the ingredients in this stack after prolonged use, thus reducing its effectiveness. For some athletes, the problem may even transcend thermogenesis. Your problem, for instance, might be releasing stored bodyfat. Or maybe you have a sluggish thyroid (thyroid hormones directly control your body's metabolism). You might be insulin–resistant, a condition which makes it extremely difficult to shed bodyfat. Impaired neurotransmitter function can also make life difficult, encouraging bingeing. Perhaps your problem is not fat at all, but subcutaneous water weight. After all, you can come in with low bodyfat levels, but if you're holding subcutaneous water, you're cooked. The point is, athletes need to overcome many obstacles in order to achieve maximum cuts and separations. So if you've had little success with conventional "fat burners" in the past, or if results have stopped coming, then don't be frustrated. It might be that you simply chose the wrong fat burner. Only Animal Cuts is guaranteed to address all of your weight–loss and definition needs. Animal Cuts is comprehensive; each convenient pak delivers over 28 active ingredients. Every day, for 21 consecutive days, you'll get nearly 7400 milligrams of pure fat shredding power. If you're competing tomorrow, then you need Animal Cuts today.
Product Facts