Discuss Universal Nutrition Animal Test in the forum
Animal Test is the ultimate in legal hypertrophic, pro-testosterone supplementation. Combining the most potent natural extracts with one of the hottest, patented, proven supplements to hit the industry in recent years, the all new Animal Test redefines the capabilities of over-the-counter bodybuilding supplementation. The Pro-Androgen portion of the Animal Test formula couples dynamic herbal extracts designed to facilitate a rise in free and total testosterone with effective anti-estrogen compounds capable of maximizing the natural anabolic response. Translation? Explosive gains in strength and size. This complex includes the revered free test potentiator 3,4- divanillyl tetrahydrofuran with anabolic ketosterones extracted from Cissus Quadrangularis—another exciting bodybuilding ingredient. Fortified with yohimbe extract designed to enable physique recomposition and to support a healthy libido, this is only the first facet of the powerful Test formula. In order to capitalize on this blast of utilizable testosterone, Animal Test comes fully equipped with a combination of cutting edge anti-estrogens including the ultra antioxidant Trans Reservatrol with 3',5,7-Trihydroxy-4'-methoxyflavone (Hesperetin) and Agaricus Bisporus polysaccharides. These constituents work to block circulating estrogen from reaching receptors as well as negating the inevitable estrogen boost brought about by excessive testosterone production, thus directly and indirectly promoting a higher ratio of circulating serum testosterone. Both components of the Pro-Androgen complex are assured for utmost efficiency and uptake through the inclusion of 6',7' Dihydroxybergamottin and patented Bioperine—the very best absorption-enhancing ingredients available today. The final and perhaps the most dramatically powerful element of the new Animal Test formula is the inclusion of the highly heralded, proven and patented hypertrophic agent, Arachidonic Acid (AA). Backed by university research studies and real world testimonials, AA has taken the bodybuilding world by storm—and for good reason. Arachidonic Acid has multiple benefits for the hard training bodybuilder, the most dramatic of which are the ability for it to enhance androgen receptor sensitivity and to amplify training related muscle inflammation and in turn magnify hypertrophy. This status as an anabolic catalyst made it the perfect backbone for this new Animal formula—providing muscle building qualities by itself and augmenting the actions of the other extremely powerful ingredients that together comprise Animal Test. Animal Test Highlights:
Enhanced Androgen Receptor Sensitivity