Privacy Policy
Smooth Elliptical Trainer - Model CE 2.0
Elliptical cross training is an ideal total body workout. The fluid, low-impact motion delays the onset of fatigue and allows you to train longer and more effectively. Legs, glutes and hips are strengthened without putting unnecessary strain on the joints. The upper torso is synchronized with the leg motion, toning the arms, shoulders, chest and back.
Smooth's most cost-effective, space-saving elliptical trainer, this machine will provide years of top notch home workouts.
 
Key Features:
: With 3 pedal distance options and 4 easily-changeable handlebar lengths, users of all heights can add variety to their workouts or simply customize the elliptical machine for enhanced comfort.Adjustable Pedals and Moving Handlebars
The elliptical's resistance system has no motor and few parts, which minimizes potential service issues.Electromagnetic Braking System:
Oversized, Slip-Resistant Pedals
- weight 22 pounds gives friction free ride, diameter 22"Flywheel
When you reverse the elliptical stride, you'll exercise additional lower body muscles giving you a more complete workout.Reverse Motion Capability:
Here is another excellent way to monitor the ongoing improvement in your cardiovascular fitness! Upon completion of your elliptical training session, press the recovery key and continue to monitor your heart rate for 60 seconds. The elliptical computer will calculate the speed at which your pulse returns to a resting heart rate after a workout. Based on this data, your fitness level will be scored from 1 to 6 (1 is highest).Recovery Pulse Measuring:
: By positioning your hands upon the ergonomically positioned sensors, the elliptical computer varies the resistance according to your pulse. This will assure that the intensity of your training is maintained at a level that will best benefit you.Heart Rate Control
The CE 2.0 elliptical trainer has a built-in sensor that calculates your body fat percentage when combined with your height and weight. The feedback you receive serves as an excellent guide to monitor your weight loss and muscle toning success.Body Fat and BMI (Body Mass Index) Calculator:
Sophisticated, attractive console uses a two-tone backlight to display time, speed, distance, calories, pulse, resistance level (load) and RPM. When the machine is in sleep mode, date, time and room temperature are displayed.Easy-to-Use Training Computer with Multicolor Display:
- Five-inch oval tubing adds style as well as durability and strengthHeavy Gauge Oval Steel Frame
9 Challenging Preset Programs