Spring 2009 Orientation
Visit Bloomington
Prospective students, employers, family members, friends will want to visit Bloomington. We have gathered information here to help you. Bloomington is a beautiful university town. If you have questions about visiting, please feel free to contact us:
phone
Directions to Indiana University
If you are driving to Bloomington from the , go south on Highway 37. Take the first exit (Walnut Street/College Avenue). Drive about 3 miles. On your right hand side will be the Bloomington Visitor's Center. Stop there for brochures, etc. Continue going south on College Avenue. Turn left on 10th Street - continue till you reach Jordan Avenue - then Turn right. . (If you missed 10th Street - then continue to 3rd Street. 3rd Street will also intersect with Jordan Avenue). Travel time from Indianapolis to Bloomington is about one to one and a half hours, depending on traffic.Directions to SLIS
Indianapolis International Airport SLIS is located at the corner of 10th Street and Jordan Avenue
Building Access
Campus Parking is limited. There are 1 hour meters behind SLIS. Beyond an hour, they do ticket. The closest visitor parking areas are the the Jordan Avenue Garage (about $20 a day), and the Indiana Memorial Union (IMU) parking lot (about 19.00 a day, or about $9.50 with a purchase from the IMU- bring your ticket to get stamped).Parking
The Monroe County Visitor's Bureau has links for a variety of lodging options. There is a convenient hotel located in the on campus. Hotels
Indiana Memorial Union
Transportation from the Indianapolis Airport
(include rental cars, and some of the limousine services available) Indianapolis Airport Links
1.800.589.6004 - Shuttles run at 2-hour intervals. Drivers cannot sell tickets, so advance ticket purchase is necessary. Tickets may be purchased with cash or credit card at the vending kiosks in the Ground Transportation Center across the street from the baggage claim area at Indianapolis International Airport or at the Indiana Memorial Union. Tickets are $22 each way. Advance reservation is highly recommended. Bloomington Shuttle Service
The state of Indiana is changing policies on daylight savings time. While, for many years, Bloomington time always stayed the same, as of 2006 it is participating in daylight savings time. Feel free to call us (812.855.2018) if you have questions. This "time zone" website may help as you plan to visit.Indiana Time zones