Getting Started Backpacking
From LoveToKnow Camping
Are you thinking about getting started backpacking? Before you take to the trails, it's important to get the right equipment, learn how to use it, and acquire the skills you need to enjoy this outdoor activity safely.
[] edit
Invest in Proper Equipment
Having the right equipment is essential for backpackers of all skill levels. If you don't set out with the gear that you need from the very beginning, you are putting yourself at unnecessary risk of injury and setting yourself up to have a negative experience.
At a minimum, you need a good quality lightweight and a pair of well made and properly fitting hiking boots. If you plan to engage in overnight backpacking, you'll also need a sleeping bag and pup tent. Depending on the length of trip you plan and your meal preferences, you may also need a camp stove. backpack
Other items you may want to purchase include:
[] edit
Get in Shape
Before you venture into the backcountry for a backpacking excursion, it's important to make sure that you are in good enough physical condition to participate in the activity. Get in the habit of walking on a regular basis during the weeks leading up to your outdoor adventure, so that your leg muscles are ready for the challenge. Try to walk on terrain similar to that you'll be traveling, or work out on a treadmill that allows you to program incline settings.
Keep in mind that your legs aren't the only parts of your anatomy that may need some toning before you take to the trails. Practice walking with your filled backpack on, so you can get your arm and shoulder muscles in shape before your outing. You don't want to end up sore and painful during your trip.
[] edit
Choose Your Location Wisely
When you're just getting started backpacking, it's a good idea to start out with a trail that's rated for beginners. You can often find out which trails are best for by calling local camping gear stores or park headquarters offices in the areas where you plan to participate in backpacking. You can also check out hiking guidebooks written about the geographic areas that interest you the most, such as and . novice backpackers 50 Hikes in the North Georgia Mountains 100 Classic Hikes Colorado
[] edit
Pack Correctly
Packing for a backpacking trip can be very challenging at first. It's essential to find the perfect balance between taking everything you need and avoiding placing extra weight in your pack. When you're in the backcountry, you're not going to be able to purchase supplies that you left behind. What you are going to have to do, however, is carry the weight of all your supplies and gear on your back at all times.
Make sure you have all the clothing, survival gear, and first aid supplies that you might need stowed in your pack. Also take care to pack water, water purification tablets, and a sufficient quantity of that will stand up to the rigors of the climate in which you'll be traveling. energy rich food
If you need guidance when it comes to , check out and . These books are full of excellent tips and suggestions for new and experienced backpackers alike. backpacking meal ideas Well-Fed Backpacker Backpack Gourmet: Good Hot Grub You Can Make at Home, Dehydrate, and Pack for Quick, Easy, and Healthy Eating on the Trail