Elliptical & Fitness Articles
 
As of 1/4/09 the Sole E95 was selling for . A very good value. Click here for the latest price on the The 2009 Sole E95 elliptical comes with a, allowing you better target and tone your lower muscles. It also gives you more of a cardio burn. I was recently at the Sole corporate headquarters and gave the E95 a test run. I talked to their VP of Sales and Marketing, and he talked about how the Sole philosophy is about giving the highest quality at the best value. They appear to have succeeded with the Sole E95.
Sole E95 Elliptical Trainer Review
"Backed by Industry Leading Warranty"
The Sole E95 ranks as one of the best values in the $1,500 - $2,000 price range. This may not be up to the quality of a high-end and expensive Life Fitness or Precor elliptical, but at less than half the price there are some features that match or exceed those machines.
Sole builds treadmills that are exclusively used for in-room fitness in the Hilton chains. They have an excellent reputation for building quality machines, backed with industry leading warranties.
Note:$1,699, with shipping Sole E95 Elliptical Trainer! -Newpower incline feature
Here is what I liked about the Sole E95 Elliptical...
I'm not sure how Sole does it, but they offer incredible warranties on their treadmills and elliptical. It obviously reflects their durability. On the E95 you get five years parts and 2 years labor. They have one of the best warranties period, for any elliptical, even ones selling for over $4,000.Industry leading warranty —
Having the ability to adjust the incline of the elliptical motion takes your crosstraining workout to a whole new level. It allows you to target specific lower body muscles like glutes and quads.Adjustable Power Incline —New!
- The fan won't blow you away, and the speakers are not the greatest, but it is convenient have both located directly in front of you. You can plug in an MP3 or iPod player.Speakers and Fan
Most front drive elliptical trainers have single wheels that one along a rail. This can lead to a slight shifting and instability. The Sole E95 has two concave wheels that makes for a very solid motion.Stable Dual Wheel Design
—
When I tested the Sole ellipticals I was thoroughly impressed with long, smooth elliptical stride. It was how the elliptical should feel, and was similar to Precor and Life Fitness.20" elliptical stride —
Some ellipticals have less than 10 levels, and the resistance can be dramatic from one level to the next. Not the case when you have 20.20 resistance levels —
You can adjust the foot pedal to an exact angle with a worm screw. This can future reduce the strain to your feet and ankles.Adjustable foot pedals —
There are those who swear by heart rate control, and claim it optimizes their workout by letting their heart rate determine their level of exertion.Includes Heart Rate Control —
This heavy weight contributes to the stability and sturdiness. Important factor, especially for users that push their machines to the limit, or have a few extra pounds. You may want to inquire about inside delivery due to the weight.The Sole E95 weighs a hefty 215 lbs —
You can control the resistance and the incline with switches on the moveable handlebars. That means you do not have to break your stride and mess with buttons on the console. A smart idea.Handlebar Controls—
Part of the weight of the E95 is the heavy 30 lb flywheel, which contributes to the smooth elliptical motion. It is also fairly quiet, even when you strain the machine.Heavy 30 lb flywheel —
Although I am not overwhelmed with the layout of the console, it still is simple to use and operate. I did like the message window that gives rolling readouts of your progress.20 character message window —
Fitness Source E95 Review
You can get a better machine, but not without paying considerably more money. And you won't get a better warranty. It is sweet knowing the first 2 years of service is picked up by the company. The total package of the Sole E95 is rather impressive.
Equally important is the excellent reputation Sole has for standing behind their products. I have yet to receive a complaint about their customer service, and have only received one email asking about a problem with one of their treadmill. That is a strong endorsement.
If there is a complaint it's the overall size of the E95. This elliptical is rather long and takes up considerable space, however the length further contributes to its' stability.
You can purchase the Sole E95 direct from and save on taxes. Limited models are also available at Dick's Sporting, but they seldom carry the E95. SoleTreadmills.com
Customer Reviews of the Sole E95 Elliptical Trainer
"My wife and I are very pleased with our Sole E95. Great workout, and very challenging with the different programs. Thanks for your info."Randy
.""Well, it has now been about 4 months since we purchased the Sole E95 elliptical and there are absolutely no regrets. The solidity persists and you can just tell that this machine will last a very long time. Considering the reputation for reliability that Sole treadmills have established, I have absolutely no worries about the future and besides, there's a solid warranty to cover us just in case. 2 years labor, 5 years electronics, and lifetime for the frame
""I purchased the Sole E95 on September 27th of 2006. Delivery was right on target. (14 days) I purchased it directly from Sole for $1699. It took me about 1.5 hours to assemble. Not too bad considering I'm not experienced at building things. I purchased another unit several years back for about $600 which broke shortly thereafter and did not get much use from it. After researching many of the machines out there, I chose to purchase this one due to a couple of reviews and an outstanding warranty. (lifetime on frame, 5 years on parts and 2 years on labor). From the time I built it, I knew that it was a very solid piece of equipment. It is silky smooth and very quiet.
Solid construction, built to last
I purchased the top line model Sole E95 directly from soletreadmills.com. The main differences between the E35 and the E95 are a more full-featured control panel, adjustable foot pads, a shroud cover for the rear rails for better wheel control, and a heavier duty frame.
The heavier duty frame was important to me because I weigh 315 lbs. Some brands of ellipticals support only a 275 lb. user. The E35 holds 300 lbs. The E95 holds 400 lbs.
The service from Sole was fairly good. The semi-truck arrived with the E95 eight days after I ordered it. It arrived in two boxes. The heavy one was 230 lbs. Fortunately I had a little chrome chart that the driver and I used to wheel it into the garage.
You really cannot go wrong with any of the Sole ellipticals.
The elliptical is bigger than most others, and very heavy.  On the highest 2 resistance settings, there is increased noise when using.  For some reason, even at level 1, the lowest setting, it has a lot of resistance to it.  This makes it very different from usual gym machines, much more difficult.
***
Click here for the latest prices on the . Sole E95 Elliptical Trainer
Other Sole Elliptical Reviews: