 
The was instituted to honor those men and women who, through their contributions in the fields of paved the way for Miami and Florida to become what it is today: the acknowledged Gateway of the Americas, and the de facto capital of Latin America.International Hall of FameInternational Trade and Transportation,
With character, determination and, in many cases, little more than a hope and a dream, this outstanding group of individuals built a bridge that linked the US with Latin America and the Caribbean, across which trade and tourism have flourished over the past four decades. Today, we are enjoying the fruits of their labor and the wisdom of their vision.
 
International Trade and Transportation Industry Hall of Fame
The men and women inducted into the International Trade Hall of Fame are recognized for the distinct contributions they have made in specific fields, which in turn have fueled the expansion of trade and transportation through Florida. The inductees, past and future, come from all walks of life, and are as varied as the businesses they helped spawn. All the inductees have one thing in common: they each had a vision which they set into action, and the resulting success made a profound difference in our community, our businesses and our way of life.
The time is appropriate to recognize the contributions of these men and women to the economy of Florida, and to our individual livelihoods. Many of us have etched a career in activities related to international trade and transportation, thanks in great measure to the vision, dedication and hard work of the International Trade Hall of Fame inductees.
The International trade and transportation industry is in constant evolution, spurred in part by innovations in technology and the opportunities created by new markets. Today, the responsibility for changing and improving the way we do business falls to a younger group of individuals, and they are having as strong an influence in our industry as did past generations. To ensure that these young men and women receive future recognition for their valuable contributions, we must keep the program alive and strong.
 
2005 FFTA Hall of Fame
DSL