Pearl S. Buck (, - , ) was the first woman to win the , with her . June 26 1892 March 6 1973 Pulitzer Prize for the Novel novel The Good Earth
Born Pearl Comfort Sydenstricker in to Caroline and Absalom Sydenstricker, Buck and her southern parents went to , in 1895. She was brought up there and first knew the and , especially from Mr. Kong, and then was taught English by her mother and her teacher. She was encouraged to write at an early age. Hillsboro, West Virginia Presbyterian missionaries Zhejiang China Chinese language customs
By 1910, she left for America and went to , where she would earn her degree in 1914. She then returned to China, and married an agricultural economist, John Lossing Buck, in 1917. In 1921, she and John had a daughter with , Carol. The small family then moved to , where Pearl taught at a . In 1925, adopted Janice (later surnamed Walsh) and sebsequently 8 more . In 1926, she left China and returned to the United States for a short time in order to earn her degree from . Randolph-Macon Women's College [1] phenylketonuria Nanjing English literature university adoptees Master of Arts Cornell University
Buck began her writing career in 1930 with her first publication of . In 1931 she wrote her best known novel, , which is considered to be one of the best of her many works. The story of the farmer Wang Lung's life brought her the in 1932. Her career would keep flourishing, and she won the in 1935. East Wind:West Wind The Good Earth Pulitzer Prize for Fiction William Dean Howells Medal
Pearl was forced to flee China in 1934 due to political tensions. She returned to the United States, and obtained a divorce from her husband. She would then marry , president of the , and adopt six other children. In 1938 she won the , after writing biographies of her parents, , and . Richard J. Walsh John Day Publishing Company Nobel Prize for Literature The Exile The Fighting Angel
In her lifetime, Pearl S. Buck would write over 100 works of literature, her most known being . She wrote , , , and 's . Many of her life experiences are related to or in her books. She wanted to prove to her readers that universality of mankind can exist if they accept it. She dealt with many topics including , (in general), , , , and conflicts that many people go through in life. The Good Earth novels short stories fiction children stories women emotions Asians immigration adoption
Pearl S. Buck died on , in and was interred in Green Hills Farm, . March 6 1973 Danby, Vermont Perkasie, Pennsylvania
References