[] edit Vehicles
The Maine State polices uses
Ford and in both marked and unmarked versions. The marked versions are a dark sky blue. Unmarked cars are a variety of colors. Police Interceptor
, unmarked, in the same blue color, Ford Mustangs
Chevy Impalas, unmarked, for traffic patrol and detective cars,
Chevy Suburbans, usually marked, usually used for commercial vehicle enforcement
Various trucks such as the , , and Ford Expedition, usually marked, usually used for commercial vehicle enforcement. Ford F150 Dodge Ram
MSP's new cars are have interior-mounted emergency lighting, with no lightbars on the roof. The marked cars usually have "ghost graphics," lettering in a blue slightly darker than the color of the car but not easily seen at a glance. Finally, while most marked units have blue license plates, many detective and unmarked units have regular civilian license plates.
[] edit Training and Qualification Programs
Maine State Troopers go through an intense and rigorous 18-week training period at the Maine Criminal Justice Academy in Vassalboro, Maine. The entrance standards to the Academy are some of the toughest in the United States. Training includes many hours of learning in courses such as firearms, Constitutional law, patrol procedures, criminal behavior, high-speed pursuit and various other criminal justice and social science courses. The training program at the MCJA is nearly as rigorous as the actual job itself, giving new recruits a good idea of the intensity of the demanding profession for which they are preparing. After graduation from the MCJA the troopers receive a further 8 weeks of training in State police policies and procedures.
As Troopers progress in their careers, they are able to join other specialized units, such as the Tactical Team or K9 Unit. These added units require many extra hours of training. Many State Troopers are involved in two to three extra units, depending upon where they are located.
[] edit Field Troops
Maine's State Police Officers (more commonly referred to as "State Troopers" by the locals) patrol from nine barracks located across the state. Dubbed "Troops," these barracks are:
Troop A - Alfred - York County
Troop B - Gray - Southern Maine
Troop C - Skowhegan - Western Maine
Troop D - Thomaston - Midcoast Maine
Troop E - Orono - Central Maine
Troop F - Houlton - Northern Maine
Troop G - South Portland - Maine Turnpike
Troop J - Ellsworth - Downeast Maine
Troop K is composed of sworn Troopers that enforce the motor vehicle guideline laws set forth by the State of Maine. These Troopers are members of the unit, and are based out of the state's capital city, Augusta.Commercial Vehicle Enforcement
Maine State Police Cruiser - Ford Interceptor
The State Police have many specialized units. These include:
[] edit Air Wing
The Maine State Police Air Wing was established in the 1970s. Today, the air wing consists of two Cessna 182 fixed wing aircraft. The aircraft are strategically stationed for regional response to mission requests. Both aircraft and pilots are certified for IFR (instrument flight rules) flight.
The State Police Air Wing is often utilized for traffic enforcement along the interstate from Kittery to Houlton, and aerial photos of traffic crash and crime scenes. The aircraft are used to conduct searches for lost or wanted persons. They also serve as an aerial platform to support the Maine State Police Tactical and Canine Teams, and conduct administrative transports throughout New England.
The Maine State Police responsible for air search and rescue efforts. In this role, air wing personnel assist incident commanders in coordinating search efforts for lost or overdue aircraft reported within the state.
[] edit Bombs/Explosives Unit
The bomb team has been active since 1994 and is made up of five bomb technicians who have been specially trained. The team is responsible for investigating actual or suspected explosive devices. Utilizing federal funding, the team obtained a containment trailer for explosives and a remote control robot, which is used to examine suspicious packages.
[] edit K9 Unit
The Maine State Police Canine Unit is currently composed of twenty certified teams. The Unit is split into two separate but interrelated functions: Operational and Training. A Sergeant and one full-time Trooper staff the Unit. The K-9 Training Center is located adjacent to the Maine Criminal Justice Academy, in Vassalboro, Maine. At this location we are able to provide over 200 acres (0.81 km) of available land for practical training, a canine agility/confidence course, a 1,300 sq ft (120 m) classroom / office building, and a 7,800 sq ft (720 m).training building. From this location we are able to provide support for our operational missions, both in terms of logistical support and equipment needs. We provide training for our own agency as well as numerous Municipal and County teams.222
Our teams are certified under the New England State Police Administrators Conference (N.E.S.P.A.C.), and Maine Criminal Justice Academy (M.C.J.A.) standards. Our teams are available 24 hours/day and respond to many types of calls in all weather conditions. Calls for service include tracking lost persons or persons suspected of committing a crime. Searching for discarded evidence, both known and unknown. Searching for suspects concealed in buildings. Locating prohibited narcotics hidden in vehicles, structures and on persons. Searching for explosives. Explosive searches are split between actual calls for suspected devices and precautionary searches for dignitaries and VIP s. Our Patrol dogs also provide protection for their handlers and deterring ongoing criminal behavior. We also provide a public relations service to the citizens of our state by performing demonstrations, which exhibit the skills needed to accomplish our mission.
[] edit Crisis Negotiations Unit
This specially trained group of 15 negotiators responds to life threatening incidents such as suicidal threats, barricaded persons and hostage takers. Their goal is to open a line of communication aimed at resolving the situation in a nonviolent manner. The team works in conjunction with the tactical team and responds to most of their calls.
[] edit Dive Team
The dive team consists of ten members, eight from State Police and two divers from the Maine Marine Patrol. The team conducts searches for evidence in criminal investigations. They also conduct underwater crime scene documentation and investigation. The team also conducts search and recovery operations for victims of motor vehicle crashes, homicide, and other water related deaths. The team is often called upon to search vessels and harbors in Maine as part of Homeland Security.
[] edit Incident Management Assistance Team
The State Police Incident Management Assistance Team (IMAT) will provide logistical and operational support for large or complex incidents requiring coordination of information and resources. Additionally, the team will provide planning support for any such incident. The team's mobile command post is equipped with advanced electronics and communications systems, as well as a full command and control area, allowing it to operate as a self-sufficient command post.
[] edit Evidence Response Team
The Evidence Response Team examines major scenes to identify and establish the interrelationships of physical evidence involved in the scene. This process involves developing, identifying, documenting, collecting, and preserving evidence for purposes of identifying suspects and establishing sequence of events possibilities.
The ERT is composed of 29 sworn members who are all IAI certified Scene Technicians and Analysts. These members may have individual forensic specialties but are all generalists that maintain a good working knowledge of the various disciplines of forensic science.
There are 20 additional ERT Associate Members that represent an expertise in a broad spectrum of forensic disciplines (i.e. pathology, trace, biology, prints, ballistics, anthropology, etc) and act as consultants who train regularly with the team.
[] edit Executive Protection
The Executive Protection Unit is assigned to protect the Governor, the Governor s family, and anyone else as designated by the Governor or the Department. Members of the EPU are trained in personal protection, physical security, and threat assessment. The EPU works closely with other state, local, and federal agencies to provide protection for the Governor and other visiting dignitaries.
[] edit Criminal Investigations and Forensics
The Maine State Police maintains a full service nationally accredited crime laboratory. There are three divisions of criminal investigators, a polygraph unit, a computer crimes unit and intelligence unit. The Maine State Police also play a key role in the homeland security issues in Maine. The Maine State Police maintain all criminal records and statistics in the State as well as the Sex Offender Registry.
[] edit Motor Vehicle Inspection Program
Maine requires all motor vehicles to undergo a safety inspection once a year. Vehicles registered in Cumberland County are also required to undergo an emissions test. Inspections are conducted at automobile dealerships, service stations and garages. To insure inspection mechanics are complying with the state's many safety provisions, motor vehicle inspectors conduct periodic reviews of their practices and facilities, and investigate complaints. In addition, State Police personnel inspect Maine's school bus fleet at least once per year. This is in addition to the two regular annual inspections required of school buses. There are about 7,500 active licensed inspection mechanics and 2,400 inspection stations. One sergeant, ten motor vehicle inspectors, and two clerks currently staff the program.
[] edit Motor Vehicle Crash Investigation Program
The State of Maine Crash Reconstruction Unit is composed of State Police, Municipal and County Law Enforcement personnel. Currently the unit includes 20 Troopers, 15 County and 37 Municipal officers. Unit members are located throughout the entire state and are chosen based on both geographic location and ability.
The objective of the Crash Reconstruction Unit is to conduct in-depth investigations and analyses of major traffic collisions throughout the state. Investigations include the reconstruction of a crash and a study of the factors that may have contributed to that crash. These factors include environmental, human and mechanical and are associated with the three phases of a collision, which are pre-crash, at-crash and post-crash. The ultimate objective of the program is the utilization of these identified causation factors to prevent collisions of a similar nature from recurring.
Unit members are trained in the physics of collision analysis and reconstruction, occupant kinematics (human factor analysis), vehicle dynamics (collision damage analysis), scene photography, the use of various measuring instruments and Computer-Aided Design software.
A Crash Reconstruction Report can include, but is not limited to, information such as:
Roadway Description