Main article: History of theatre
The earliest recorded theatrical event dates back to 2000 BC with the of . This story of the god was performed annually at festivals throughout the civilization, marking the known beginning of a long relationship between theatre and religion. passion plays Ancient Egypt Osiris
The began formalizing theatre as an art, developing strict definitions of and as well as other forms, including . Like the passion plays of ancient Egypt, Greek plays made use of mythological characters. The Greeks also developed the concepts of dramatic criticism, acting as a career, and theatre architecture. ancient Greeks tragedy comedy satyr plays
Western theatre continued to develop under the , in , and continued to thrive, taking on many alternate forms in Spain, Italy, France, and Russia in the 16th, 17th and 18th centuries. The general trend over the centuries was away from the poetic drama of the Greeks and the and toward a more realistic style, especially following the . A uniquely American theatre developed along with the colonization of North America. Roman Empire medieval England Renaissance Industrial Revolution
The history of Eastern theatre is traced back to 1000 BC with the of ancient . also dates back to around the same time. Japanese forms of , , and date back to the 17th century. Other Eastern forms were developed throughout , , and . Sanskrit drama Indian theatre Chinese theatre Kabuki Noh Kyogen China Korea Southeast Asia
The most popular forms of theater in the were theatre (which included hand puppets, and productions) and live known as , where actors re-enact episodes from . In particular, revolved around the (martyrdom) of 's sons and . Live secular plays were known as , recorded in medieval literature, though they were less common than puppetry and theater. medieval Islamic world puppet shadow plays marionette passion plays ta'ziya Muslim history Shia Islamic plays shaheed Ali Hasan ibn Ali Husayn ibn Ali akhraja adab ta'ziya [2]
Technical theatre
The most recognisable figures in theatre are the , , and , but theatre is a highly collaborative endeavour. Plays are usually produced by a that commonly includes a , , , , , or and . Depending on the production, this team may also include a , or . The artistic staff is assisted by personnel who handle creation and execution of the production. directors playwrights actors production team scenic or set designer lighting designer costume designer sound designer stage manager props mistress props master production manager dramaturg video designer fight director technical theatre
Types
Drama
(literally translated as from a verbal root meaning "To do") is the branch of theatre in which speech, either from written text (), or is paramount. And the companion word is also Greek, meaning . Classical forms of drama, including Greek and Roman drama, classic English drama including and and French drama including is still performed today. Drama action, plays improvised dramadranto do William Shakespeare Christopher Marlowe Moli re
Musical theatre
Main article: Musical theatre
and theatre have always had a close relationship. is a form of theatre combining , , routines, and spoken . Modern emerged from the and "" of the early 20th century and includes a combination of dialogue, song and dance, and spectacle. of the 21st century include lavish costumes and sets supported by million dollar budgets. Music Musical theatre music songs dance dialogue musical theatre variety shows follies Broadway musicals
Comedy
Certain theatre productions qualify as comedies, such as or . is also a form of theatre. Boeing Boeing As You Like It Stand-up comedy
Theatrical Philosophy
There are a variety of philosophies, artistic processes, and theatrical approaches to creating plays and drama. Some are connected to political or spiritual ideologies, and some are based on purely "artistic" concerns. Some processes focus on a story, some on theatre as event, and some on theatre as catalyst for social change. According to 's seminal theatrical critique , there are six elements necessary for theatre: Plot, Character, Idea, Language, Music, and Spectacle. The 17th century Spanish writer wrote that for theatre one needs "three boards, two actors, and one passion". Others notable for their contribution to theatrical philosophy are , , , , , and . Aristotle Poetics Lope de Vega Konstantin Stanislavski Antonin Artaud Bertolt Brecht Orson Welles Peter Brook Jerzy Grotowski
Some theatre theorists argue that actors should study all of the commonly-taught acting methods to perfect their craft (though many others disagree), such as the , , , and acting methods. However, the majority of modern western theatre is derived from Stanislavski's "system" in one form or another.[] weasel words Meisner Stanislavsky Strasberg Hagen
Theatre Organization and Administration
There are many modern theatre movements which go about producing theatre in a variety of ways.
Amateur v. Professional
Theatres run the gamut from amateur to professional. In community theatres, as well as in educational theatre, actors are typically not paid. Fringe theatre productions are typically paid, but minimally so. Broadway productions are known for their large budgets. The spectrum of amateur to professional is as follows: