Kennedy, assasinated (1963); Richard M.
Nixon, resigned (1974) and technically Gerald Ford (since he was never elected to office, he "never
completed a term to which he was elected"). Of the eight Presidents whose terms were ended by their
deaths, four of the Vice-Presidents who
ascended to office were elected for their own term
(Theodore Roosevelt, 1904; Calvin
Coolidge, 1924; Harry Truman, 1948 and Lyndon B. The first stop on
our grand tour through the Executive Branch has to be the . From here, you can meet the First Family,
take an interactive tour of the Whitehouse, the Old Executive Office Building, or see the First Ladies'
Garden of the White House. You can also see major
electronic texts of Daily Press Releases, Topical
Releases, Major Documents (such as speeches by the President), and National Documents (ie NAFTA & the Declaration of Independance). If you haven't heard the President or Vice President's voice in quite some time, you can also here a welcome message from both of them. By their joint efforts it came to pass that in the
spring
of 1803 a
treaty was
signed by which France
gave up to the United States for a
pecuniary consideration the vast region then known as Louisiana.
Livingston remarked to the
plenipotentiaries
after the treaty was signed: "We have lived long, but this is the
noblest work of our lives." The
story of the
negotiations that terminated in this sale is full of romance. Bonaparte, Talleyrand, and Marbois were
the
representatives
of France; Jefferson, Livingston, and Monroe guided the interests of
the United
States. The of the United States
Constitution guarantees a speedy, fair trial before a jury of one's peers. A jury
consists of 12 people who are
selected to hear the evidence in a trial. After the
jurors hear the evidence presented during the trial,
they must try to decide if the
defendant is guilty or not guilty. Read Utah's and then answer the following questions: Sixth Amendment Guide to Jury Service How are people selected to serve on a jury? Michael Moore
Award: BBC/ Lonely Planet Guide to USA Here's a quote for you: "Bush really hasn't
done much when it comes to
breaking down the preconceived notions of Americans as
greedy, myopic, pompous cretins..." [Intake of breath].
"The
president had never been to Europe before taking office,
his disregard
for immigrants
has
been shocking and the
lengths he's been willing to go for oil seem boundless." In order to ensure a smooth transition of power, there is a need for a period of time between the election and and the swearing in of the new
period.  New
presidents have to choose cabinet members and other key administration members, as well as get up to speed on security issues and simply began the task of physically moving a new team to Washington. 
For
the old president, this time in office is referred
to as "the lame duck" period, a term taken from Wall Street that used to refer to people who could
not pay off their loans--persons,
like the
lame duck president, without much capital. We welcome the new vision they bring to
Washington and pledge to work with
them to
tackle the nations deepening
domestic
challenges, including
the epidemic of
home
foreclosures, the crisis in public education as
well as rising unemployment and
poverty
that have hit middle
class and urban Americans especially hard in recent years. Obama is the first person of African-American descent to be nominated by a
major American
political party for President, and the first person of
African
American
descent to be elected President of the United
States of America. A graduate of Columbia University and Harvard Law School, where he became the first black person to serve as president of the Harvard Law Review, Obama worked as a
community organizer and practiced as a civil rights attorney before serving three terms in the Illinois Senate from 1997 to 2004. He taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004. This is a color system designed for textile use - appropriate, since flags are made of cloth! The
specifications
are:       Cable No. 70180   
Old Glory Red       Cable No. 70001    White       Cable No. 70075    Old Glory Blue Various sources give different Pantone equivalencies for these colors. The most plausibly authoritative are those provided on miscellaneous American Embassy websites, including American Embassy London. The oath specified in Article II does
not
include four words recited in all
recent inaugurations: "So help me God."  The first known use of the phrase "So help me God" in a presidential inauguration was by Chester
Arthur, on
September 22, 1881, following the death in office of President James Garfield.  In 2008, atheist activist Michael Newdow unsuccessfully sued in
federal court to block the use of the
phrase "So help me God" in Barack
Obama's inauguration. 
On three occasions, presidents
(Arthur,
Coolidge, and Obama) have re-taken
oaths
after questions
were
raised about first attempts.  The most recent do-over occurred in 2009 after Chief Justice Roberts
got
the oath's words out of order in the
public
inauguration
ceremony. Most of the laws that
govern our day-to-day living
are .
Violations
of
include offenses involving federal government employees, crimes committed across state
lines (for example,
kidnapping or evading arrest), and fraud involving
the national government (such as income tax or postal fraud). judicial branch state courts federal
courts state laws federal law Each man possessed great skills and leadership of the
brand our nation needed for the
times. Today
millions of visitors come to see Mount Rushmore and gain inspiration
from these four great men. Operating
Hours & Seasons Memorial and visitor services are open all year. Visitor services are closed December 25. Communities Surrounding Mount
Rushmore National Memorial Note: The
times listed below are approximate driving times to the park.
                                                  
                                                  
Constitution The
American Constitution is the oldest written constitution in force in the world. The authors of the Constitution built in a provision for amending the document when political, social or economic conditions demanded it. Reproduction of painting of George Washington, Benjamin Franklin and others signing the U.S. Constitution
in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. (©Library of Congress) Twenty-seven amendments have been passed since ratification. No. of items: 202 () Rating:
Last
updated: Jan 24, 2002 20 in demo ver.   Privacy policy   Due to
SuperMemo Library being moved to a new
server, you can currently order
this collection only as a subset of one of the mixes from that are listed in the section you can find in the left pane of this page (if available). While in office, the in serves as the
place of residence for the president; he is entitled to use its staff
and facilities, including medical care, recreation, housekeeping, and security services. One of two
Boeing VC-25 aircraft, which are extensively modified versions of Boeing 747-200B airliners, serve as long distance travel for the president, and are referred to as while the president is on board.
United States of America by Dave
Martucci United
States
Flag
History Pages In 1960, a star was added, representing , bringing the total number of stars to 50. There are thirteen stripes representing the
thirteen original colonies. Hawaii According to President Dwight Eisenhower's Executive Order (#10834, published 25 August, 1959) the 50-Star flag would become the "official flag of the United States on July 4, 1960." , 21 February 1996 Nick Artimovich What Shade of Red/White/Blue The official specification for federal
procurements of U.S. flags is
set by the General Services
Administration.
National Council for the
Social Studies: Thematic Strands I, II, V, VI, X Arizona Academic Standards, Social Studies: 1SS-E17, E18; 2SS-E3, E7, P1, P5, P10 California History-Social Science Content Standards: 8.1, 8.2, 8.3, 8.4; 11.1; 12.1, 12.2 Texas Essential Knowledge and Skills: Social Studies 8.1, 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, 8.16, 8.21, 8.23; U.S.
Government 1, 2, 3, 8,
9, 10, 14, 15, 16 Alexander
Hamilton, James Madison, John Jay, The Federalist Papers, ed. Clinton Rossiter, with Introduction and notes by Charles Kesler (New York: Mentor Books, 1999). Declaration of Independence, 1776. Her time and
her friendliness
now belonged to the nation, and she
was generous
with both. As she wrote later, she was "I, and yet, not I--this was the wife of the President of the United States and she took precedence over me...." Under the sorrow of her younger son's sudden death at
16, she never let grief interfere with her duties as First Lady. Tact and gaiety made her one of the most popular hostesses of the White House, and she left Washington in 1929 with the country's respect
and love.