There have been some reports that the archives have been delayed again until January-February, 2009. According to a mailing from Warner Music on 15 October, "the 10-disc Blu-ray and DVD packages will be released early in 2009". The album will be included in Archives, Vol. 1 which
is currently scheduled to be released on this date. No date for the separate CD has yet been released.[] citation needed "The Deluxe," muttered amp tech Sal Trentino with awe. "Neil's got four hundred and fifty-six identical Deluxes. They sound nothing like this one." Young runs the amp with oversized tubes, and Cragg has to keep portable fans trained on the back so it doesn't melt down. "It really is ready to just go up in smoke, and it sounds that way flat-out, overdriven, ready to self-destruct." Young has a personal relationship with electricity. live with Crazy Horse Rust Never Sleeps 1976 1978 September 24, 1981 - May 12, 1982 #19 with the Shocking Pinks Everybody's Rockin' April 27 - May 25, 1983 #46 September 20, 1991 - February 1, 1992 #16 : 5 x Platinum CAN [4] August 6, 1994 with Crazy Horse Sleeps with Angels "It's an album with a form based on some of my original recordings, with a large variety of songs, rather than one specific type of
song. Where and were albums focused on
one subject or style, is more like or , with different types of songs working together to form a feeling. Now that radio formats are not as influential as they once were, it's easier to release an album that crosses all formats with a message that runs through the whole thing, regardless of the type of song or sound. "Old Black doesn't sound like any other guitar," said Cragg, shaking his head. For Cragg, Old Black is a nightmare. Young won't permit the ancient frets to be
changed, likes his strings old and used, and the Bigsby causes the guitar to go out of tune constantly. "At sound check, everything will work great. Neil picks up the guitar, and for some reason that's when things go wrong." The lyrics help evoke the turbulent mood of horror, outrage and shock in the wake of the shootings, especially the line "four dead in Ohio," repeated throughout the song. "Tin soldiers and Nixon coming," refers to the Ohio who killed the student protesters and Young's attribution of their deaths to
the , . Crosby once stated that Young keeping Nixon's name in the lyrics was "the bravest thing I ever heard." Two of its founding members, and , were students at Kent State during the killings, Casale having witnessed the shooting and known two of the victims. Casale was not impressed by it at the time, seeing it as an opportunist song by "rich hippies... making money off of something horrible... that they
didn't get." In s liner notes, Young reflected in 1976 that, "[i]t's ironic that I capitalized on the death of those American students." Devo When Pigs Fly: Songs You Never Thought You'd Hear Jerry Casale Mark Mothersbaugh [3] Decade' [2] Guitarists marvel at the stomp box that lies onstage at Young's feet: a byzantine gang of effects that can be utilized without any degradation to the original signal. Just constructing the box's angular red wooden housing to Young's extreme specifications had craftsmen pulling their hair out. Cradled in a stand in front of the amps is the fuse for the dynamite, Young's trademark ax Old Black, a '53 Gold Top Les Paul some knothead daubed with black paint eons ago. is also a by & , released in 1997. It offers a different track list than the film.Year of the Horse live album Neil Young Crazy Horse This live album, in many ways could be seen as an epitaph for longtime Neil Young producer David Briggs,
who died in 1995 from lung cancer. Gov't Mule Cortez the Killer Dave Matthews The sold-out 2007 Christmas Jam featured G Love, Frampton, Hornsby, and more. Visit Asheville Citizen-Times for a . The alone is worth the click. Brilliance. review of the show and some videos comment thread Cortez the Killer originally appeared on the frequently overlooked album . Zuma by Neil Young & Crazy Horse Dylan was interested in seeing the room where some of Neils first songs were composed. Bob Dylan [] edit Achievements Young was inducted into the in 1982. He has been inducted into the twice: first in 1995 for his solo work, with an induction speech given by , and again in 1997 as a member of Buffalo Springfield. Canadian Music Hall of Fame Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Eddie Vedder A document that accompanied the acetate (which Young's archivist has denounced as a fake) gave the impression that Young had officially given as the title, inspired by rumours in the press of
a new album with the same title. Young is quoted as saying "What really was, was a sketch that drew of a grille and front of a '55 Chrysler, and if you turned it on its end, it was this beautiful chick...I called it ." After a series of experimental and commercially unsuccessful records in the '80s, Young returned to raw-edged rock and roll, making him a hero to bands like Nirvana and Pearl Jam. Young is a model train enthusiast.Extra credit: Copyright 1998-2006 by Who2?, LLC. All rights reserved. More on from Fact Monster:Neil Young - Neil
Young singer; songwriter;
guitarist Born: 11/12/1945 Birthplace: Toronto, Ontario, Canada From ... Neil Young Everything started to go to fucking fast. It was going crazy, joining and quitting, joining and quitting again. I began to feel like I didn`t have to answer or obey anyone. I needed more space. That was the big problem in my head. So I`d quit, then I`d come back 'cos it sounded so good. It was a constant problem. Asked about how he felt replacing Danny Whitten as the Crazy Horse lead guitar: "I never felt I could replace Danny and to this day I can't play like Danny. Every once in a while Neil will say "you should listen to the record" or Billy will say "just listen to what Danny did". I try not to. Danny had what he did and I think it is very special. Ohio (Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young song) From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia file info help "" is a written by in reaction to the
of , and performed by . It was
released as a single, peaking at #14 on the .
Although a live version of
the song was included on the group's 1974 , the studio version of both songs did not appear on an LP until the group's compilation was released in 1974.Ohio protest song Neil Young Kent State shootings May 4 1970 Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young Billboard Hot 100 double album Four Way
Street So Far