Her products ranged from hair conditioners and facial creams to hot combs specially made for the hair of Black consumers. After her early suffering and poverty plagued existence, Sarah McWilliams had looked for a way out and as Madame C.J. Walker was able to purchase a 34 room mansion built off of the Hudson River in New York. Midaq Alley, by Naguib Mahfouz. "Written in the 1940s, this novel by the Egyptian Nobel laureate Mahfouz deals with the plight of impoverished classes in an old quarter of Cairo. The lives and situations depicted create an atmosphere of sadness and tragic realism. Indeed, few of the characters are happy or successful. This is reflected in concepts such as achievement motivation
and assertiveness. In fact, in
recent years assertiveness has
become such a desirable attribute that efforts have been designed for ssertiveness training.If one is oopassive, dependent, or cooperative, it is concluded that one needs skill in the assertive
promulgation of self. This becomes a measure of one mental health.  We all
are familiar with the extensive work
of McClelland and Atkinson (1953) on
achievement motivation. [an
error occurred while processing this
directive] Two American Entrepreneurs: Madam C.J.
Walker and J.C. Penney Two
American Entrepreneurs: Madam C.J. Walker and J.C. Penney (Indiana Division of Historic Preservation and Archaeology) (J.C. Penney Archives) A t a busy intersection in the bustling city of Indianapolis, Indiana, stands the imposing four-story brick structure known as the Walker Building. In 1910 she moved to Indianapolis, setting up a factory and beauty school. The collection contains the personal and business papers of Madam Walker, A’Lelia Walker, Freeman B. Ransom, and others who worked
for the company, company records relating to operations and the beauty schools and agents, and materials from businesses located in the Walker Building in Indianapolis. provides biographies, articles and links regarding historically and culturally important African-American women. African American Women: Our Story Some useful information despite being a rather jingoistic site. Betsy Ross Homepage information about Bethune and the extensive archives collection. Mary McLeod Bethune Council House abolitionist, women's rights activist. Biography, life chronology, bibliography, photographs.
Sojourner Truth biography and
photos of the self-made millionaire, philanthropist, and social activist. After poking around a bit more
on the , one thing quickly became clear: the government definitely
considers the arts to be the country cousins of math, reading and science. Next year, the NAEP plans to  NAEP's website "administer the assessment to over 1,000,000 students in more than 19,000 public and private schools in each state and the nation." Summarizing their anecdotes, the authors endorse such time-proven attitudes as valuing achievement, reading constantly and widely, and working hard. www.africanamericanimages.com Dr. Jawanza Kunjufu states that many African American students have not fully accepted the responsibility of being a college student. This book is a blueprint in choosing the most appropriate college, making the right decisions while there, and ultimately marketing oneself
after graduation.