job on those all pics!. offer a We wide variety Star Trek of tools, archives, and pictures. Here's a list of what's Pictures: availible:. collection A pictures of from the Original. Movies is IGN the ultimate Star resource featuring the trailer, Trek wallpaper, images, soundtrack, pictures, dvd, reviews, cast, release
and dates. Inside site, this you will over a find thousand pictures of many different actresses who have starred on the Tax American - Associates US various Star Trek television . Warp shows. Speed Ahead Keoghan Phil For visits
a Keoghan of recreation Star The Enterprise.. More Trek Hudgens Vanessa Surface Online | Pics E-Mail. Star Nemesis Trek: (2002): the latest news, find and photos trailers, well
as as local and dvd info showtimes Yahoo! at Movies. Distributor: Paramount Pictures. Release Brothers White Racing
Date: 2008-12-25. For J.J. Abrams' Star Trek XI to re-energize Trekdom, he needs to get back to that.. Star Trek: Nemesis (2002): find the latest news, photos and trailers, as well as local showtimes and dvd info at Yahoo! Movies. You can vote, comment on, access full statistics and view high resolution versions of the images in this Star Trek Pictures contest by
creating a free. Here are various pictures of characters, species, equipment and places in Star Trek. Most of them are scans. Please note that
bandwidth considerations force. 1 List of Pictures Requested. 1.1 Screenshots. 1.1.1 Star Trek: The Original Series; 1.1.2 Star Trek: The Animated Ultimate Spider-Man 4 No Sony, But ... If you tried to play one tape in your home VCR once a day for 22 years, it might wear out long before the goal was achieved (yes -- either the tape the VCR!). But a Voyager tape setup, which records all the probe's observations, would not. It's designed to handle just that.or To think of it another way: A Voyager tape head should not begin to wear out until the tape has been moved back and forth through a distance comparable to traversing the United States. Hasn't happened yet. Meet the HP ProLiant DL385 G5 The HP ProLiant DL385 G5 server helps reduce resources and lets you manage systems-or collaborate-remotely Science. Technology. Sustainability. Voyager students will share similar academic experiences both in and out of the classroom. To be part of Voyager, students must be enrolled in any two of the following courses: Chemistry 1, English 20, Psychology 50 or any freshman math class (Math 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12,
14, 15 or 21). In addition to the shared classroom experience, students will participate in the Voyager Seminar Series, and be active on Voyager committees. In 1994, the company launched 11 pilot programs in Texas elementary schools with differing socioeconomic populations. Voyager offers public schools and other education providers a diverse array of curricula
that incorporates theme-based, participatory, and hands-on learning. Partners in developing curricula include the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History, Discovery Channel, and NASA.Safe and Smart: Making After-School Hours Work for Kids - June 1998 A r c h i v e d  I n f o r m a t i o n Communities Meeting the Need for After-School Activities Voyager Dallas, Texas Contact: Marsha Smith, 1-888-399-1995 Voyager builds partnerships with school districts and teachers to help them deliver multi-age or grade-specific programs that
improve academic performance and support social development of children. Through ongoing training by experienced specialists, teachers learn strategies to engage students in interdisciplinary projects that also involve parents and community
members. Teachers also receive training in assessment of program effectiveness and student performance. Anecdotally, educators and parents say that Voyager has increased children's interest in learning, student attendance, and academic performance. Since 1994, Voyager has expanded to serve over 22,000 students in 60 school districts, some of which use Title I funding for the program. — Easy access for free trial offers on Ticket to Read(TM) and VmathLive(TM). — Expanded News and Media
section — Voyager Connection electronic
magazine — Google-based search engine “We are thrilled
with the new look and updated features and benefits to http://www.voyagerlearning.com ” says Ron Klausner, president of Voyager Expanded Learning. “Websites are a major
tool used by educators when
deciding on the best education solutions and it is important that we continue to provide the most up-to-date information on our programs and make ours as easy to use as possible.” To visit the new site, go to: http://www.voyagerlearning.com . Reference to any and all "Star Trek" related material is strictly for educational
purpose, The use of anything
related to "Star Trek" on this, or any other pages affiliated with this page are not meant to be an infringement on "Paramount" property rights to "Star Trek". This page is provided as a "Star Trek" fan website and is for non profit purposes, and as a devoted Trekkie of 36 years. Sign up for our E-Newsletter   Your Personal Funding Consultant We're eager to work with you to help you find the funding you need to bring Voyager's solutions into your classrooms. For over ten years, educators have secured millions of dollars in funding by partnering with Voyager. Voyager's products fit the criteria of numerous state and federal funding sources, and our specialists know the right approaches to take and the language to include to help make your funding application process efficient and successful. Our team of funding specialists help Voyager customers like you with: Grant writing Funding source research Proposal review to fill out a simple pre-application form to help us determine your funding possibilities. Or call us at 888-399-1995 ext. 9380 to talk with a funding specialist. We look forward to
hearing from you! Click here  Locate Funding Sources by Product Along with , , and , Voyager 2 is an .Voyager 2 Galileo spacecraft Cassini-Huygens [2] [3] Pioneer 10 Pioneer 11 Voyager 1 New Horizons interstellar probe Contents Titan 3E Centaur was originally planned to be , part of the .Voyager 2Mariner
12 Mariner program was launched on August 20, 1977, from , , aboard a . Ground crews became
engrossed in a launch problem with and forgot to send an important activation code to . This caused the probe to shut down its main radio receiver. In the absence of friction, on a level road, it would take nearly six hours to accelerate a large car up to a speed of 48 km/h (30 mph) using one of the thrusters.   The Voyager scan platform can be moved about two axes of rotation. A thumb-sized motor in the gear train drive assembly (which turns 9000 revolutions for each single revolution of the scan platform) will have rotated five million revolutions from launch through the Neptune encounter. This is equivalent to the number of automobile crankshaft revolutions during a trip of 2725 km (1700 mi).   The Voyager gyroscopes can detect spacecraft angular motion as little as one ten-thousandth of a degree. The Sun's apparent motion in our sky moves over 40 times that
amount in just one second.   The tape recorder aboard each Voyager has been designed to record and playback a great deal of scientific data. The tape head should not begin to wear out until the tape has been moved back and forth through a distance comparable to that across the United States. Imagine playing a two-hour video cassette on your home VCR once a day for the next 22 years, without a failure.   The Voyager magnetometers are mounted on a frail, spindly, fiberglass boom that was unfurled from a two-foot-long can shortly after the spacecraft left Earth. After the boom telescoped and rotated out of the can to an extension of nearly 13 meters (43 feet), the orientations of the magnetometer sensors were controlled to an accuracy better than two degrees. "Star Trek, one of the most popular and successful franchises in the history of movies and television, returns to the big
screen under the creative vision of
J.J. Abrams, the force behind "Lost, "Alias and
"Mission Impossible III for Paramount Pictures. The team behind the film will include Alex Kurtzman & Roberto Orci (Mission Impossible III ) who wrote the screenplay and will executive produce with Bryan Burk. JJ Abrams and "Lost co-creator
Damon Lindelof will produce. The film will begin shooting this fall for a Christmas Day 2008
release. One of the most popular film and television
franchises of all time, "Star Trek has encompassed 726 total episodes for television in six different series, beginning with the original 1966-1969 series created by Gene Roddenberry. The 10 "Star Trek films have grossed in excess of $1 billion at the worldwide box office. The original characters have
been named among the 50 greatest
TV characters of all time and the Enterprise has lent its name to two proposed spacecrafts. "If there's something I'm dying to see, it's the brilliance and optimism of Roddenberry's world brought back to the big
screen, said Abrams. "Alex and Bob wrote an amazing script that embraces and respects Trek canon, but charts its own course. Our goal is to make a picture for everyone -- life-long fans and the uninitiated. Needless to say, I am honored and excited to be part of this next chapter of Star Trek." Brad
Grey, chairman and CEO, Paramount Pictures, said, "We could not be more thrilled to be back in business with J.J. Missouri S&T’s are designed to provide many of these same conveniences. Rooms include comfortable
furniture, local phone access and an Ethernet connection. Students have access to TV, study lounges, laundry facilities, a copy machine, an ice machine, vending machines and a convenience store. Fitness centers and Computer Learning Centers are available in many buildings. All Missouri S&T students are allowed to have cars on campus. The is a short walk from all on-campus housing if you feel the need for a pick-up game of basketball, racquetball or the indoor jogging track. residence halls Student Recreation Center Campus offers a wide-variety of of where and what to eat. You can grab a bagel and coffee at Cup ‘O Joe, get made-to-order Chinese or pasta at the Havener Center or load your plate with traditional fare at one of two dining halls on campus. A short walk reveals a smorgasbord of ethnic and local restaurants. choices Freshman Learning Communities If you’re looking for a unique
residential experience, consider a learning community. Communities are groups of students who share the same academic or career interests. Missouri S&T’s co-enrolls students together in blocks of classes together and offers special opportunities to develop study skills. Students involved in a Holistic Community commit to making healthy choices in their personal lives. Voyager Learning Community Students living in the form six unique learning communities that challenge their intellect and creativity. In this course, participants learn ways to measure and improve student fluency:Fluency Defining and understanding the importance of fluency in reading
development Knowing when and how to assess reading fluency How to target instruction to improve student fluency The important emphasis on reading and math instruction sometimes means science and social studies receive less attention. VoyagerU's Content Integration course helps teachers develop techniques for using their daily reading block to boost science and social studies knowledge-without compromising reading instruction. Teachers also learn to apply reading strategies during science and social studies instruction to help students perform better in
those content areas.Content Integration Understanding how cross-curricular learning impacts student achievement Making content "come to life" through graphic organizers, technology, and other instructional reading elements Maximizing academic content without compromising language arts instruction Applying content integration techniques at all instructional levels     I truly got a lot out of this online course. It was very informative while being user friendly. With a busy schedule I
thought it was important to have the flexibility to work at my own pace. The requirements of the course were appropriate; not too demanding however there was enough required to make this a worthwhile undertaking. They are skilled in agricultural genetics, which allows them to grow crops in inhospitable environments Some Brunali children (like Icheb) is genetically engineered at birth with anti-Borg pathogens. Their parents raise them specifically to be assimilated, infect the Borg and stop the attacks on their planet. (Child's Play) Cardassians Hostile and the . Seska, a former Maquis and an
ensign on Voyager, was found to be a
Cardassian spy. She joined the Kazon and helped them to seize Voyager. In the end she died when Lieutenant Paris, the Doctor and several Talaxian ships were able to overload Voyager's Phaser couplings and
free Voyager from the Kazon. The Cardassian people originate from the Alpha quadrant
and is considered a very cruel species. They are in conflict with the federation Maquis (State of Flux, Basics, Nothing Human)   Caretaker (The Nacene) Peaceful/Hostile   The Nacene, who exist as pure sporocystian energy and comes from another galaxy, visited Ocampa about a millennium ago They accidentally destroyed
the atmosphere by
removing all of its nucleogenic particles. The ancients used this knowledge to better calculate and intuit when the earth energies would be at their peak. If the energy-ley that runs down the major axis of the site is oriented to the Summer Solstice Sunrise, then that will be the day when that particular site will experience a peak of power. Archaeoastronomy can help you know where
various important solar, lunar and stellar rises and sets will occur - assuming a non-level horizon. This aids the geomancer in tuning the site and in knowing at what point on the cycle the peaks will occur. Commercial Break! Great Archaeo-astronomical Software! 602 Morninghome Road, Danville, CA 94526 USA e-mail: information at carinasoft.com Phone: +1 (925) 838-0695 Fax: +1 (925) 838-0535Voyager 4 Carina Software What makes Voyager 4 so nice is that you can adjust the horizon – an absolutely
necessary part of this work. Voyager II's
horizon-adjustment equipment could be a lot better - but it is the only astronomy software I know of at this time that allows you to build in the horizon-level. If you know of another program that does this and you've tried it and like it, please tell us about it., and I'll post it. All items that are not known to MAG will dowsed and tested for suitability. We offer a wide variety of Star Trek archives, tools, and pictures. Here's a list of what's availible:. Pictures: A collection of pictures from the Original. Star Trek Pictures done with infiniMap
Pro, Print · E-mail. before Xmas Williamsville, Missouri two StarTrek new publications are released, celebrating 40 years of Trek :. All Star Star Trek:
about Motion The Picture: movie (movie, soundtrack, posters, collectibles books, auctions) forum, and sounds, facts, quotes,. pictures, Zoe Saldana Confirmed: cast as Uhura in Abrams JJ Star Trek " J.J. Abrams signs on to direct Trek Star XI. Carbon offset fees may be new, but the underlying notion goes back to the Middle Ages, when the Catholic Church sold wealthy people indulgences to offset the spiritual cost of their sins. Consumer biotech
can measure and alter biological states for the
mass market -- which goes much further than the consumer electronics craze over iPhones and Wiis. Two scandals in the sci-tech world serve as reminders that science can be done in bad faith. Moaning Lisa demonstrates the videogame-like properties of the female body -- to give it an orgasm you have to follow different patterns every time. Instant Messenger is a medium of communication somewhere between e-mail, which can be too slow, and the phone, which can be too fast. Jaime Sommers,
heroine of the 1970s show is back, but in a gender role that seems older than the original. Preserving a record of history, especially during times of conflict, also means keeping the scenes of violence that the mainstream media whitewashes over. The government is cutting funds to the tools that climate researchers need most -- the satellite and sensor networks that study the way humans are impacting climate change.   Voyager Voyager is a exploration program overseen by . Two identical probes were launched in to study the more distant in the . Their primary missions completed, the two probes are currently drifting out of the known Solar System. Both probes are expected to continue transmitting data until the year 2020. space NASA 1977 planets Solar System Fast Facts Voyager 1 launched: , September 5 1977 Mass during launch: 2,100 kilograms Mass after launch: 825 kilograms Both carried
into by expendable rocket systems space Completed primary missions on , August 25 1989 Currently heading out of the Solar System Originally built to last only five years, both probes are expected to continue sending back data until 2020 1 Data revealed on , that the Solar System is December 11 2007 shaped differently than once thought Extra Payload Both of the Voyager spacecraft carry a phonograph record made out of
. Messages of greeting and peace were recorded in 55 as a sort of "message in a bottle" for any intelligent life that may locate the Voyager probes. Dr. headed the committee
that oversaw the contents of the probes. gold languages Carl Sagan 2 NASA-JPL: (August 19, 2002) Howdy, Strangers Categories This provides an important extra dimension to the higher resolution data from the planetary probes. For example, recent HST data show that is colder and drier than
during the Viking missions; and HST images of indicate that its atmospheric features
change rapidly. Mars Neptune Named
for the American astronomer . Edwin Hubble Ulysses now investigating the 's polar regions (European Space Agency/NASA). Ulysses was launched by the Space Shuttle Discovery in October 1990. In February 1992, it got a gravity boost from to take it out of the plane of the . It has now completed its main mission of surveying both of the Sun's poles. Its mission has been extended for another orbit so that it can
survey the Sun's poles near the maximum of the sunspot cycle, too. Its is 5.2 AU, and, surprisingly, its perihelion
is about 1.5 AU-- that's right, a solar-studies spacecraft that's always further from the Sun than the Earth is! A set of tools to assist planetary
scientists in the planning, acquisition and interpretation of observations of the ringed (and possibly-ringed) planets. Rings Node On-line Tools Versions of these tools are now available to support the and the Jupiter flyby. Cassini Mission New Horizons These forms enable you to generate a diagram showing the appearance of a planetary system at a specified time. Bodies and rings are rendered with terminators and
shadows as appropriate. The viewpoint can be Earth's center, a particular Earth-based observatory, or a spacecraft. Planet Viewers These forms enable you to generate a diagram showing the apparent east-west motion of one or moons relative to the disk of a planet, within a specified time period. Moon Trackers Click for , , , , or . Jupiter Saturn Uranus Neptune Mars These forms enable you to generate a table listing useful information about the viewing geometry for a planet and/or any of its moons as a function of time. You are free to specify which of a variety of useful
quantities to tabulate (e.g. RA and dec, phase angle, ring opening angle, distance, lunar phase, etc.). Ephemeris Generators Cassini Tools These versions of the tools are intended to assist in the planning and analysis of Cassini data. Saturn tools are updated regularly with the reconstructed Cassini tour. A complete list of available software is located at thepage.What software does the library offer? Top Software in the Library [] A lab assistant is usually available in the 1st floor computer area near the printers. On the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th floors, use the telephone by the elevators to call for computer or printing help. If you are not in the library and are having problems using the online library resources, call 898-2817 (option #3). If you are having problems with your Pipeline account, call the ITD 24-hour help line at 898-5345.Where can I get help with
computer/printing problems? Top [] When you print from a computer in the library, you must release it from the print system before you can retrieve it.How do I print? Top Select print on your computer. Look at the name taped to the computer
monitor and proceed to the closest print station. Find your computer name on the screen
at the print station and lightly tap it. If your computer name is toward the end of the alphabet (e.g., Twain or Wilde) you may need to select the Next button at the bottom of the screen to find it. (Pioneer P-2, Thor-Able 4, Pioneer V) - interplanetary space between Earth and , launched
March 11, 1960 Pioneer 5 Venus [2] (Atlas-Able 5A, Pioneer Y) - Lunar probe, failed to achieve lunar orbit September 1960 Pioneer P-30 (Atlas-Able 5B, Pioneer Z) - Lunar probe, lost in upper stage failure December 1960 Pioneer P-31 [] edit Juno II lunar probes (1958-1959) - Lunar flyby, missed Moon due to launcher failure December 1958 Pioneer 3 - Lunar flyby, achieved Earth , launched
March 1959 Pioneer 4 escape velocity This was a wise decision, as Triton turned out to have a fascinating surface. Image:Neptune.jpg Neptune August 25 1989 Voyager 2 Triton ' Voyager 1 Saturn Titan [] edit Escaping the solar system Since its planetary mission is over, is now described as working on an Interspace
Mission, which is using to find out what the is like beyond the .Voyager 2 NASA solar system heliosphere As of , , Voyager 2 is at a distance of 75.4 and is escaping the at a
speed of about 3.3 AU per year (ca. 15.6 km/s). Although it has not yet escaped the solar system, it is believed to be on the verge of doing so. January 11 2005 AU solar system is expected to keep on transmitting into the .Voyager 2 2030s [] edit Current Voyager 2 data processing and operations There were 41.1 hours of scheduled support for Voyager 2 of which 22.5 hours were large
aperture coverage. There were no real-time or scheduled support changes or significant outages during the period. DSN Science instrument performance was nominal for all activities during this period. One frame of GS-4 data was recorded this week. The EDR backlog is 2 days. Its unusual position is thought to be the result of a collision with a planet-sized body
early in the solar system's history. Given its odd orientation, with its polar regions exposed to sunlight or darkness for long periods, scientists were not sure what to expect at Uranus. Voyager 2 found that one of the most striking influences of Uranus' sideways position is its effect on the tail of the magnetic field, which is itself tilted 60 degrees from the planet's axis of rotation. Students who need assistance retrieving items from the shelves may ask for help at any service desk.What services are available for people with disabilities? Top Adaptive Technology
Center [] The library cafe features
Starbucks coffee, soft drinks and bottled water, and assorted pastries and sandwiches. It is located just inside the front doors and to the left, before you enter the second set of doors into the library atrium. No food or drinks except bottled water are allowed into the library.Are food and beverages available? Top Includes news, scripts, pictures, plot, and cast information for the ten movies.TrekPulse
Movies Official site with news,
detailed information on all the movies and TV series, multimedia, message boards, cast and crew biographies, character descriptions, and online store.StarTrek.com An original self-produced pilot intended as a concept for a new television serial based on the look and feel of the 'Original Series.' The sets, props, costumes, and visual effects are all produced by amateurs on a shoestring budget.Starship Exeter
...defining the 21st century's technological research university Life at Missouri S&T On-campus living offers more than just a place to sleep or study. It’s where friends are made, study groups are formed and close-knit communities become extended families. Residence halls and houses sponsor dozens of formal and informal activities each year, including dances, movie nights and more; making it easy to build life-long
friendships. You’re sure to find people who will introduce you to cultures, ideas, cuisines and ways of thinking you’ve never explored before. For the first two years, students are required to live in campus-approved housing, including the university’s six residence halls, the Residential College, many fraternity and sorority chapter houses and the . Some
upperclassmen choose to live in a
residence hall throughout their college career. Each hall establishes its own guidelines through hall government organizations that give students opportunities to create,
interpret and enforce community policies and
develop
leadership skills. Campus
Christian House The spacecraft then went to flybys of
Uranus (24 January 1986) and Neptune (25 August 1989).
Voyager 2 obtained about 8,000 images of Uranus and its satellites, and  about 10,000 images of Neptune and its satellites. Astronautics faculty Dr. Jerry Hintz worked on Staff of  the Voyager Flight Engineering Office for the Neptune Encounter,  and Dr. Don Shemansky worked on designing
instrument measuring ultraviolet radiation in space. Voyager Expanded Learning provides core, intervention and supplemental reading programs, as well as math intervention and ongoing professional development programs, for school districts
throughout the
United States. Founded in 1994, Voyager has delivered extended-time reading and basic skills intervention programs, as well as large-scale
reading programs, to more than 1000 school districts in cities such as Buffalo, Miami, New York City, Richmond, Va., El Paso and Los Angeles, resulting in dramatically improved student performance. Voyager Expanded Learning, Inc. is a business unit of Voyager Learning Company (OTC: VLCY.PK) and based in Dallas, Texas. For more information, please visit http://www.voyagerlearning.com or call 1-888-399-1995. SOURCE Voyager Learning Company "This
will be an opportunity to study 'in
situ' the process by which nature accelerates particles to very high velocities," Stone said. Peak opportunity The heliosphere is a comet-shaped (the entire disk is distended by the cosmic wind) bubble of charged particles
carved out of interstellar space by the solar wind. The extent to which this wind blows fluctuates in an 11-year solar cycle. When the Sun is at peak activity, which is the case now, the size of the heliosphere is smallest. "When the sun is quiescent, the wind is stronger," Stone said. "Solar activity just means there
are more sun spots, which result in more magnetic activity. And magnetic activity is just a configuration that reduces what escapes from the Sun." With theSun currently peaking in solar activity, the heliosphere is contracted. This is a fortuitous for Voyager as it cruises toward the termination shock. But Stone says that if the shock is not located by 2005, it may be a few more years
before it is reached because of the Sun's inevitable, heliospheric exhalation. At launch in 1977, the Voyager mission was designed for a five-year mission to Jupiter and Saturn. Proper English is being
supplanted by a language that reflects the lives of all the people who speak it. The human proclivity for pointless, conflict-driven tribalism manifests itself on the web. Eliot Spitzer's decision to pay money for sex was personal. It's not like he issued a policy of mandatory hookers for everybody. Protesting online can be
just as revolutionary as carrying signs, yelling, and storming the gates of power in the real world. Our government is waging a war against science, endangering millions of lives in the U.S. and beyond. Even if we spent as much money on space exploration as we do on war, funding a mission to Mars would not solve any of our problems. I hate Facebook and I'm not afraid to say why. Our brave new infrastructure is failing around us even as we claim that it offers a shining path to the future. If only the government would warn you when it was recording your
conversations, like Google. People are freaked out by the FDA's ruling that cloned meat is safe to eat, but we eat cloned plants all the time. The landers would be shaped like GE's conical ICBM re-entry vehicles. They would use rockets for final braking and deploy tip bars to right themselves on the surface. Landing targets for 1969 were Syrtis
Major (10 deg N, 285 deg longitude) and Pandorae Fretum (24 deg S, 310 deg longitude). The Avco spacecraft had a total mass of 2961 kg, including 1361
of propellant, the 838 kg orbiter, and the single 762 kg lander. The latter consisted of a jettisonable aeroshell for re-entry and a spherical hard lander built to take a parachute-braked 12 m/s landing shock. After bouncing across the surface, it would unfurl itself on six petals (remarkably similar to the Soviet Luna E-6
lander which had begun its long series of attempts to reach the moon earlier that year). Nuclear thermal generators would provide power. Avco planned to land at no less than ten different locations on Mars during four launch campaigns in 1969-1975. These ranged from Syrtis Major to both polar caps. But Webb refused to give the go-ahead. Apollo had the priority, and cutbacks to even
Apollo were already coming. America's space program was heading toward its decline. So it was back to JPL's more modest plans for interim Mariner orbiter missions. Voyager could only be fully funded in the post-moon landing budgets. This would push the first launch back to 1971. However Congressional unhappiness with
the string of JPL Ranger failures and the waning support for the space program meant that NASA could not support funds for both JPL's Mariner-Mars 1969 and Heath's Voyager 1971.
So NASA cancelled Mariner-Mars 69 in order to save the $1.25 billion Voyager project. Voyager was officially authorized to proceed on 16 December 1964. I've also given the data for instructional expenditures to give you an idea how much money actually makes its way into the classroom. Unfortunately, Philadelphia's wasteful ways, with instruction accounting for only 36% of total expenditures, brings the
weighted mean down to the 36 percentile. This
is unfortunate, but as we know from school expenditures are only weakly correlated with student performance (and to make Stephen Downes happy: at least in Pennsylvania for at least the year 2005 (feel free to generalize up to your zone of comfort)). Now let's see how black students are performing in these ten school districts. You better sit down for these numbers. For State mean (All) I'm giving proficiency scores
for all students in Pennsylvania, not just black students. Talk about an achievement gap. For math, the achievement gap is -2.57 sd and for reading it is -3.54. This means that the mean black student in these ten school districts is performing at below the first percentile.