Von Willebrand disease
keeps platelets from sticking to holes in blood vessels to patch them. It is passed down from parents to children (genetic). Healthy platelets stick to wounds and to each other to help form clots that stop bleeding. A protein in the blood and blood vessels called von Willebrand factor causes platelets to stick to injured vessel walls. If there's not enough of this protein or the protein does not work right, the platelets do not stick. Epistaxis and oropharyngeal, soft tissue, or minor bleeding should be treated with intravenous or nasal DDAVP, if supported by results of
a DDAVP trial. (B, IIa) If
elevation of VWF is necessary and response to DDAVP is inadequate, VWF concentrate should be used, with dosing primarily based on VWF:RCo units and secondarily on FVIII units. (C, IV) For minor surgery, initial prophylactic treatment should achieve VWF:RCo and FVIII activity levels ≥30 IU/dL and preferably >50 IU/dL, and should be maintained for 1-5 days. (B, III) Management of minor bleeding (e.g., epistaxis, simple dental extraction, or menorrhagia) with DDAVP and proper
fluid restriction can be
performed without monitoring of
electrolytes unless Stimate® or DDAVP is used more than three times within 72
hours. (C, IV) For persons with mild to moderate VWD, antifibrinolytics combined with DDAVP are generally effective for oral surgery. VWF concentrate should be available for persons who cannot receive DDAVP or who bleed excessively despite this combined therapy. J Thromb Haemost (2004), 2 (1), 205-206 The factor VIII gene intron 1 inversion mutation: prevalence in severe haemophilia A patients in the UK Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis 2005 Br J Haematol. 2005 Mar;128(6):830-6 The prevalence of the cysteine1584 variant of von Willebrand factor is increased in type 1 von Willebrand disease: co-segregation with increased susceptibility to ADAMTS13 proteolysis but not clinical phenotype British Journal of Haematology (PMID 15755288) 2006 Haemophilia. (2006), 12, (Suppl 1), 16-20 Clinical implications of emerging pathogens in haemophilia: the variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease experience Kidney, brain, or heart in a sterile RTT. Turn-around time is 3-4 weeks. KEY: : Green top Microtainer® tube (heparinized). Comes with or without separator gelGRT : Lavender top tube; Microtainer® LTT for aviansLTT : Serum separator tube; Microtainer® SST for aviansSST : Red top tubeRTT   References: (West Nile Virus, update Sept. 19, 2002); Vet Pract News 14(10):1 and 11, 2002. www.avma.org     Samples for VWD Testing Testing for von Willebrand disease is best performed on
citrate anticoagulated plasma (BTT). If the sample is
picked up and delivered by
an Antech courier or the same day,
submission of a full BTT of
whole blood is acceptable. Undergraduate: University of Illinois, Chicago
BS Biology, 1974 Dental School: U of Illinois College of Dentistry DDS, 1979 Residency: Pediatric Dentistry, US Army Fort Meade, Maryland, 1992Education/Training: Mentor for Pediatric Dentistry in the Comprehensive Dentistry Residency Program, Fort Bragg NC, 1995-2002. Dr. Ravel has provided numerous lectures and clinical presentations to medical and dental training programs, organizations, associations, and clinics - in various countries.Previous teaching Positions: Lectures: We will file
dental insurance claims for all major dental insurance companies. Our office hours are Monday through Thursday 8 AM to 4 PM, and Friday 7:30 AM to 11 AM. If you have an emergency, please call the office, and you will be told how to contact the doctor on call. The office is conveniently located near Fort Bragg. If you are coming from Fort Bragg going south on Reilly Rd., go 100 yards past Morganton Road, and turn into Dental Lane. If you are coming west on Morganton Road, turn left (south) at Reilly Rd, go about 100 yards, and turn into Dental Lane.INSURANCE INFORMATION At Children's
Hospital, we offer a full range of services to diagnose
and treat this disease. We can also counsel
parents who have this disease and want to know more about
their risk of passing it down to their children (called genetic counseling). If one person in a family has been diagnosed with this disease, we often suggest screening other family members to see if they have it, too. For children with von Willebrand disease who need frequent treatment, we coordinate care with the hemophilia nurse specialists at . General Management of VWD Patients Treatment is aimed at cessation of bleeding or surgical prophylaxis. (C, IV) Continued bleeding, despite adequately replaced VWF:RCo and FVIII activity
levels, requires evaluation for other causes of bleeding. (C, IV) Long-term prophylaxis is rarely required; it is currently under investigation. (C, IV) Patients > 2 years of
age should be immunized against
hepatitis A and B. (C, IV)
Patients should have the opportunity to talk to a knowledgeable genetic counselor. (C, IV) Counsel patients to avoid aspirin, other NSAIDs, and other platelet-inhibiting drugs. (C, IV) Restriction of fluids to maintenance levels should be considered in persons receiving DDAVP (especially young children and in surgical settings) to avoid hyponatremia and seizures. (C, IV) Structure-function studies on uracil DNA glycosylase and its role in DNA repair. , M.D. Thyroid hormone regulation of hepatic gene expression. Regulation of
apolipoprotein A1 gene expression and gene therapy to enhance apolipoprotein AI levels in patients with heart disease. J. Hans
van de Sande, Norman C.
W. Wong , Ph.D. T cell immunology and autoimmune diabetes. Yang Yang , Ph.D. To investigate the role(s) of vascular smooth muscle
phospholipase D in the
development of atherosclerosis, the
major cause of cardiovascular diseases. Xi-Long Zheng Adjunct Members Ph.D. Regulation of metallothionein genes; molecular biology of Leishmania pathogenesis. NHLBI Educational Materials Catalog: A Pocket Guide to the Diagnosis, Evaluation, and Management of von Willebrand Disease A Pocket Guide to the Diagnosis, Evaluation, and Management of von Willebrand Disease The new Clinical Practice Guidelines provide the complete and authoritative presentation on the causes, diagnosis and treatment of the common, inherited bleeding disorder known as
von Willebrand Disease. This
is the
first-ever evidence-based
presentation by NHLBI on this topic, and the first ever
prepared in the United States. This handy pocket guide, derived from the Full Report, is ideal for health professionals to use as an on-the-go reference. - Features diagrams and information about the various thrombophilic genetic markers, general information about clotting, glossary, and list of research sources. UIUC Hematology Resource Page   - Features articles about blood coagulation disorders including activated protein C resistance, von Willbrand's disease, and hypercoagulability. Viewpoint Online: Coagulation Help build the largest human-edited directory on the web. , Ph.D. Regulation of substrate utilization in metabolic disease states. , Ph.D. Structure, function and evolution of blood clotting factors. Regulation of hemophilia,
von Willebrand disease and diabetes. Jane Shearer , Ph.D. Biochemical and molecular biological studies of plasminogen and its role in fibrinolysis and metastasis. David M. Waisman   Genetic basis and consequences of metabolic disease. Don J. Fujita , Ph.D. The control of cell growth. Dr. Savaraj Grewal , M.D., F.R.C.P. (C) 1. Murine models of skeletal development and osteoarthritis 2. Immunoglobulin-induced inflammatory arthritis 3. Breast cancer bone metastasis 4. Role of Pten and SHIP in autoimmunity 5. Carcinogenesis 6. Exploring prion gene function Frank R. Jirik , Ph.D. Regulation of expression and function of oncogenes. Control of cancer cell behavior. Cell cycle control, differentiation and apoptosis. Randal N. Johnston Ph.D. Mouse models of cancer, cell signaling and functional genomics. Sung-Woo Kim, , M.D., Ph.D.,
F.R.C.P.(C)
Paracrine/autocrine, and/or endocrine factors regulating fat cell proliferation and differentiation in health and obesity. - Introduction and methods, manufacture of therapeutic coagulation factor concentrates, safety data on which recommendations are based, licensing status, therapeutic guidelines, clinical audit and a review of the guidelines. Guidelines on Therapeutic Products to Treat Haemophilia and Other Hereditary Coagulation Disorders   - Thomas G. DeLoughery Associate
Professor of Medicine
defines this term and does an in depth article. Hypercoagulable States   -
Summaries
of the latest research concerning fish oils and blood coagulation. International Health News Database   - Brief information about these hypercoagulability disorders including causes, treatment, and prognosis. Medline Plus: Congenital Protein C or S Deficiency   - Provides brief information about this inherited bleeding disorder, which is similar to hemophilia. In people with this type, there's something abnormal about the von Willebrand factor itself. Type 3 Von Willebrand Disease People with this type have little to no von Willebrand factor and often very little Factor VIII. This type is severe. Von Willebrand Disease in Children Children can get von Willebrand disease if their parents have it. In general, an adult with the disease has a 1 in 2 chance of passing down the gene that causes the condition. Lau , Ph.D. The role of DNA-PK and ATM in detection and repair of DNA damage. Susan P. Lees-Miller , Ph.D. Molecular cell biology of the neuronal cytoskeleton and nucleoskeleton and Neurodegenerative disorders and Aging. Minh Dang Nguyen , Ph.D. Brain tumor biology. , Ph.D. Regulation of gene expression by diet, diabetic potential of early diets, and development of in vitro models. Ian Parney , Ph.D. Protein-tyrosine kinases and compartmentalized signalling: controlling cell proliferation and differentiation. Stephen M. Robbins , Ph.D. Molecular, cellular and
mouse model studies of inherited disorders of nucleotide metabolism. Floyd F. Snyder Ph.D. NHLBI von Willebrand Disease Expert Panel Chair William L. Nichols, Jr., M.D. (Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN)
Members Mae B. Hultin, M.D. (Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, NY); Andra H. James, M.D. (Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC); Marilyn J. Manco-Johnson, M.D. (The University of Colorado at Denver and Health Sciences Center, Aurora, CO, and The Children's Hospital of Denver, CO); Robert R. Montgomery, M.D. (BloodCenter of Wisconsin and Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI); Thomas L. Ortel, M.D., Ph.D. (Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC); Margaret E. Rick, M.D. (National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD); J. Evan Sadler, M.D., Ph.D.
(Washington University, St. Louis, MO); Mark Weinstein, Ph.D. (U.S. Food and Drug Administration, Rockville, MD); Barbara P. There are three main
subtypes of von Willebrand disease. The first two are by far the most common. Type 1 Von Willebrand Disease People with this type have normal von Willebrand factor, but not enough of it for proper clotting. They may also be low on one other clotting factor, called Factor VIII. This type of the disease tends to be mild. The patient with Type 1 or 2 may receive a synthetic hormone Desmopressin as a nasal spray or injection. Oral contraceptives are sometimes given to females patients who experience heavy menstrual periods with excessive bleeding. This disease is difficult to diagnose. Diagnosis requires a skillful practitioner obtaining a thorough patient and family history in addition to physical assessment. Patients will present with bleeding symptoms; heavy bleeding, nosebleeds, bruising, blood to excrements, or excessive bleeding with trauma. The disease is diagnosed by assessing for anemia. In addition the patient will be assessed for von Willebrand protein and how well it functions. The practitioner may obtain a factor VIII clotting test
as well. Blood Coagul Fibrinolysis. 2004 May;15 Suppl 1:S2 The European acquired haemophilia registry Blood Coagulation
Fibrinolysis (PMID 15166931) 2004 Clin Med. (2004), 4, 54-56 Gene therapy trials in the UK: is haemophilia a suitable 'model'? Clinical Medicine 2004 Haemophilia (2004), 10, 390-396 The Genetics of bleeding disorders: a report on the UK Haemophilia Centre Doctors' Organisation annual scientific symposium, 10th October 2003 Haemophilia (PMID 15230955) 2004 J Thromb Haemost. 2004 Jul;2(7):1047-54 The incidence of factor VIII and factor IX inhibitors in the hemophilia population of the UK and their effect on subsequent mortality, 1977-99 Journal of Thrombosis and Haemostasis (PMID 15219185) In the adolescent or adult woman who does not desire pregnancy, but may desire future childbearing, the first choice of therapy for either menorrhagia or to prevent hemorrhagic ovarian cysts should be combined oral contraceptives. (B, III and C, IV, respectively) If a woman would otherwise be a suitable candidate for an intrauterine device, the second choice of therapy for menorrhagia should be the levonorgestrel intrauterine
system. (B, IIb) For the woman who
desires pregnancy, DDAVP, antifibrinolytics,
or VWF concentrate may be
tried to control menorrhagia.
(C, IV) Dilation and curettage is not usually effective to manage excessive uterine bleeding in women who have VWD. (C, IV) Management of Pregnancy and Childbirth Women planning for pregnancy should have, before conception, an evaluation by a hematologist and a high-risk obstetrician who are skilled in the management of VWD. (C, IV) For women who have type 1, type 2, or type 3 VWD, with FVIII or VWF:RCo levels <50 IU/dL, or a history of severe bleeding: Usually, but not always, children who get the gene from just one parent will have type I or
type II disease. They may have no symptoms, or their symptoms may range from mild to severe. Children who get the gene from both parents will likely have type III disease. Girls and boys are equally likely to get the disease. The risks can be more complex for girls once they start their menstrual period. Medline Plus: Factor X Deficiency   - Also known as Hageman factor, this is a congenital coagulation disorder that causes prolonged coagulation in a test tube but does not cause
abnormal bleeding. Includes brief information. Medline Plus: Factor XII
Deficiency   - David Ginsburg,
M.D: An article covering von Willebrand Factor, coagulation
factor V, plasminogen
activator inhibitor-1, primary pulmonary hypertension and bone marrow transplantation. Molecular Genetics of Blood Clotting   - Information about these rare medical conditions, anticoagulant therapy, research and online forum. Protein S Deficiency and Thrombophilia   - Discusses study results and whether or not thrombophilia patients should be tested for this mutation. Prothrombin Gene Mutation Molecular biology and 'knockout' and transgenic mouse techniques to understand how cell cycle progression and differentiation of cells is orchestrated during embryonic development. Ph.D., Regulation of proliferation in cancer cells and molecular pathology/diagnosis of cancer. James (Jay) C. Cross, Douglas J. Demetrick, M.D., Neuro-oncology clinical trials; inhibitors of brain cancer invasion and metastasis. Peter Forsyth, , Ph.D., M.D., Antigen targets of autoimmune diseases. Special interest in the cell and molecular biology of the Golgi complex, cell cycle antigens and components of the miRNA pathway. Models of autoimmune disease and new diagnostic
technologies. Marvin J.
Fritzler , Ph.D. Role of src-type oncogenes and cellular effectors in signal transduction, proliferation, cancer, and differentiation. Those born with
the disease have ineffective or
missing von Willebrand proteins in the blood. This is a clotting disorder. There are three types of von Willebrand Disease; Type 1, Type 2 or Type 3. Type 1 is related to a low level of the protein. Type 2 is related to ineffective functioning of the protein. Telomere resolution, DNA replication and mechanisms of pathogenesis in Borrelia
burgdorferi, the Lyme disease
spirochete. Ph.D. Structure and
function of intracellular Ca2+ channels, with special emphasis on the ryanodine receptor. George Chaconas S. R. Wayne Chen, ,
Ph.D We are investigating the function of RecQ at the molecular level using Jennifer, A Cobb Saccharomyces cerevisiaeas a model system..