The next cycle
usually begins about 7 months from the start of the last heat cycle, not the end of that cycle but again this varies from dog to dog. The interval stays the same even if she becomes pregnant. If you do not intend to breed her, you really should consider spaying her. There are many health benefits associated with spaying such as decreased chance of mammary tumors and you will not have to worry about pyometra, metritis or unwanted litters (overpopulation is a big problem - just take a trip to a
humane shelter). If you elect to spay
her, this can be done during heat but it may be best to wait until the heat cycle is over to decrease the chance of complications. That's the essence of inhumanity .  -George Bernard Shaw Did You Know?Facts About Spaying or Neutering your Pets Two unaltered cats and all their offspring can number an astounding 420,000 in 7 years. Two unaltered dogs and their offspring can number 67,000 in 6 years. Every day in the United States, more than 70,000 puppies and kittens are born. When this number is compared to 10,000 human
births each day, it is clear that there can never be enough homes for all these pets. They are extremely susceptible to high
temperature and tolerate Southern climates such as ours very poorly unless they are kept in an air-conditioned house. I
think the
important point
to remember in relation to
Arctic breed, is that these breeds were able to survive in the Arctic not only because they could tolerate cold but
because more precisely, they could tolerate extremely wide swings of temperature in relation to their body temperature.
Therefore, they are also, it appears, better adapted for severely high temperatures. The animal that was selected by living in a temperate climate, that is, one in which the
temperature stayed very close to the animal's body temperature throughout the year, is not only going to be very
susceptible to cold weather, but also is going to be more susceptible to severely hot weather which is well over the dog's body temperature. Apart from that, in a mixed litter with the participation of several fathers, those puppies from a pure
breed will be absolutely perfect. Though
some breeder may doubt, those puppies will have no defect. As we can see, heat period brings home dirty and disturbances, besides a noisy puppies litter, perhaps at an inappropriate moment. Therefore, you can always have the last word if you want to prevent it. Methods go from delaying and inhibiting heat periods till castration. Dog Heat Cycle Period     The first signs in young females appear usually between six and 8 months, though heat period properly does not appear till 10 to 12 months. Register the appearance of this signs in your female, so you won't be surprised when heat period
arrives; you can fit your schedules to it (trips). Any time you bring your dog to the vet, try to bring a fresh fecal sample. Put a small, fingernail-sized sample into a plastic bag, or ask your vet for a supply of fecal samplers. The vet cannot always get a fecal sample from the dog, and this saves you extra trips to return the sample and then bring the dog in if the tests are positive. When you get your new dog, you might already have pets that you will need to introduce the new dog to. Exactly what you will need to do depends on the kinds and temperaments of the animals involved. Meeting first in a neutral area such as someone else's house or in a park, if possible, may help. Keep the following safety concerns in mind as the
temperature rises, and follow our tips to keep your dog cool. If your dog is outside on a hot day, make sure he has a shady spot to rest in. Doghouses are not good shelter during the summer as they can trap heat. You may want to fill a child's wading pool with fresh water for your dog to cool off in. Never leave your dog in a closed vehicle on a hot day. She will chew the umbilical cord to separate the placenta and unless you intervene, she will more than likely eat it. Most mother cats stay with the kitten except for
very short periods of time to eat and eliminate. Mothers will move the litter to a more secluded nest if the kittens are handled too often. Mother cats rarely require assistance in the delivery of their kittens. Your most significant contribution to the birth will be to provide appropriate prenatal care to the mother. This should include and attention to her . Pregnant cats should be fed a high-quality diet formulated specifically for kittens beginning in the last third of the pregnancy when the fetuses are in their
rapid growth stage. These are secreted by the hypophysis gland. These are two: the FSH, that stimulated the growth of the follicles and is used for therapeutic ends, and the LH that unleashed ovulation.The Gonadotropines:   It is secreted by the same gland as the FSH; it permits the dilation of the tissue during birth. It is
also used to provoke
labor.The Oxiticine: Also secreted by the same gland, it stimulates the secretion of milk after giving birth. The Prolactine: In the male dog Use our Free and 9,000 Active Member Discussion Forum to This lets you
select and adjust the heat intensity from off to full temperature heat quickly and easily. (sold separately below) Choose the Heater
for the shape of the dog house & Rheostat Configuration For square houses or open arrangements Classic Dog House Heater Pad NO Built-in Rheostat Purchase Below For square houses or open arrangements Don't allow the mother to eat more than one or two afterbirths since she may get indigestion and diarrhea if allowed to do so.normal 5. Another puppy should follow in 1 to 2 hours. If the mother continues to strain and have contractions for more then 2 hours without giving birth to another puppy, CALL YOUR VETERINARIAN. After the puppy has been dried, umbilical cord severed, (and tied if you severed
the cord) encourage the
mother to lick her puppy, but she may be disinterested in her puppies until she is through giving birth to all her puppies. Then, place the puppy in the small box or basket containing the heating pad or hot water bottle that your have prepared before hand. Pregnant dogs require regular exercise during pregnancy. Weight control is important because more delivery problems are seen in overweight dogs. While weight reduction is probably
not advisable
during pregnancy, regular exercise will counteract some of the problems associated with obesity. Going for a walk, chasing a ball or Frisbee, or doing any exercise your dog is accustomed to should be safe during pregnancy. Neutering male dogs reduces the incidence of prostrate cancer and prostate disorders. Spayed and neutered pets are better, more affectionate companions. Neutered cats are less likely to spay and mark territory. Spaying a female dog or cat eliminates its heat cycle.
Estrus lasts an average of six to twelve days, often twice a year, in dogs, and an
average of six to seven days,
three or more times a year, in cats. This malformation can be manifested by the presence of an ovary on one side and a
testicle on the other, or by the presence
of a sexual
gland on
the side that is both male and female, called an ovotestis. The animal can also have normal genital organs, but they might be opposite, testicles and vulva.Not male, nor female: Other anomalies like malformations of the penis's cover can cause infections. We will not go through all of these because most of them require the diagnostic of a veterinarian or a surgical procedure. By general rule, if a puppy, male of female has difficulties urinating, presents frequent evacuations or infections, you must
visit the
veterinarian.Other dog birth malformations: Fleas have a direct effect on the host and produce allergic conditions and anemia. Allergic dermatitis is a hypersensitive state produced by the inoculation of saliva during feeding and is characterized by intense pruritus, resulting in licking, chewing and scratching. The allergic response is characterized by an immediate (10-15 min.) and delayed response (24-48 h.) Our thinking on different illnesses is based on the common sense
advice of dog owners and information from leading Veterinary authorities. Check back often since every week we will be adding
information on another canine disease. We try and provide home remedies wherever possible, and never intend for the advice to be a substitute for a medical professional that knows your dog's breed and health. Whether
discussing rice for diarrhea or treating
arthritis in dogs, you'll hopefully find our
approach helpful. Opportunistic organisms normally found in the vaginal canal. In heavy infections, may species cause infertility, early embryonic death, resorption, abortion, stillbirth, or the birth of weak, nonviable pups. Canine herpesvirus Causes fatal infections in newborn puppies and vaginitis in bitches. Can cross the
placenta and infect puppies, resulting in fetal death, mummification, abortion, premature birth, or the delivery of weak, nonviable pups. Canine distemper virus May cause spontaneous abortion with or without fetal infection. Often abortion results from stress of the clinical disease. Canine adenovirus (infectious hepatitis) May cause spontaneous abortion with or without fetal infection. This stage may last 3 or 4 days or as long as 7 to 11 days. The female may be receptive a day or two past the time when she would still be fertile. In order to be sure that the breeding is taking place at the
optimum time, vaginal smears and blood tests can be done by a veterinarian beginning before estrus and through the estral phase.proestrusestrus Yorkshire Terrier At about the 14th day, or whenever estrus ends, the final, or luteal, stage of the cycle begins; this stage is called . The discharge becomes redder, the vulva returns to its normal size, and the bitch will no longer accept the male for mating. The two species of the genus
that affect dogs are and . Babesiosis can cause in dogs. Babesiosis Ixodidae Babesia B. canis B. gibsoni hemolytic anemia
[26] [] edit
Other infections in dogs is caused by a mutant form of and is usually disseminated. Symptoms include weight loss, , and . Protothecosis green algae uveitis retinal detachment [6] Intestinal parasites * Head tilt * Turning the wrong way when called
* Eating out of one side of his food bowl * Loss of balance * Lethargy * Blindness * Loss of bladder and bowel control * Sudden behavioral changes Dog Stroke Diagnosis Once your vet has determined that your dog has indeed had a stroke, he or she will need to determine the cause of the stroke and treat that problem in order to prevent future strokes or other health problems. Wring the cloth out just enough to keep it from dripping, and soak down the fur of the head, inside the ears, above and under the neck, on the tummy and groin, and
on the tops and bottoms of the feet.   *Keep pets with breathing problems indoors.  
*Wetting down your dog with cool water or allowing him/her to swim can also help maintain a normal body temperature.HOW TO CARE FOR YOUR DOG IN HOT WEATHER Our endocrine system helps maintain the steady state of our bodies. It controls our metabolism, growth and reproduction, and helps us adapt to stress and changes in our physical circumstances. It also regulates the concentrations of important substances in the blood, like glucose, calcium, sodium, potassium and water. Secreted by various endocrine glands throughout
our body
(and some by the neurons, or nerve cells, in
our brains), our hormones act as chemical messengers. They are transported by our blood to target tissues, where they activate a change in some physiological activity. But only if the tissue contains the right receptors. the number of puppies and whether live or stillborn, assisted or unassisted delivery, abortion), as well as
the vaccination history; results of previous Brucella canis serologic testing; and information about the animal's housing and diet are important for determining potential causes of pregnancy losses. The physical examination will indicate the
general health and nutritional status of the bitch as well as the possibility of any concurrent disease process. Gillette
College of Veterinary Medicine Auburn University Dog Heat Stroke "Dog heat stroke requires immediate veterinary care. Panting does not cool dogs well when the outside temperature and body temperature are close (103F). Cool your dog on the way to the veterinarian by running the air conditioning and applying ice packs if you have them. The result of not seeking treatment could be kidney failure or brain damage." Symptoms of Dog Heat Stroke Excessive panting Salivation Body temperature of 104or more Collapse Diarrhea Vomiting Increased, thumping heart rate Depression Stupor or appearing in a daze
Seizures Coma Heatstroke is usually seen in the months between May and July. The Reptiles and Amphibians in Captivity site collects longevity and breeding information. Longevity
Project Comparative
Neuromuscular Laboratory, University of California - San Diego, Case
Presentation. In addition to specific case presentations (many of which have video clips, muscle biopsy specimens, EMGs, and other advanced diagnostics), monthly topics include muscle biopsy techniques and anesthetic considerations of patients with myopathies. Site contains information about hereditary neuromuscular diseases, plus additional links and email addresses for research being conducted. Neuromuscular Case Presentations A database of genes, inherited disorders, and traits in more than 135 animal species (other
than human and mouse). The database contains textual information and references, as well as links to relevant PubMed and Gene records at the NCBI. Online Mendelian Inheritance In Animals (OMIA) Genetics laboratory at the University of Pennsylvania; run by Urs Giger. Having evolved in origin and species and using domestication history as a start line, we then
focus on the dog's body analyzing in detail its anatomic structure, its external aspect and its organs before making a deep examination of its intelligence and abilities, dedicating a complete section to the "dog's language". 6 Section: Follow-up Optimal treatment for your dog requires a combination of home and professional veterinary care. Follow-up is crucial. Administer any medications prescribed by your veterinarian and contact your veterinarian if you are experiencing
problems treating your dog. Observe your dog's activity level and appetite. Monitor his skin for bruising and gums for
pinpoint
hemorrhages. Your dog should be re-examined after 3 to 7 days to evaluate serum biochemical tests and an electrocardiogram (ECG or EKG) if arrhythmias were detected during hospitalization. The actual follow-up procedure employed will depend on the severity of your dog's heat illness, his response to therapy, and your veterinarian's recommendations. You'll get
plenty of advice on healthy diet, safe exercise, and all necessary medical care for your female, including ultrasounds, and a C-section if it turns out to be necessary. veterinarian In fact, now is the perfect time to scout out a good vet, before you breed your female, so I recommend you discuss your future plans with your current vet, and if you're comfortable
with the answers you
receive, then you might want to continue with him/her. A good vet/breeder relationship involves a certain level of mutual trust that can only be built over time. For more information about ancient dogs, see: J.M.C. Toynbee, Animals in Roman Life and Art (Ithaca: Cornell UP, 1973), and a source recommended there: Aymard, Essai sur les chasses romaines, chapter XII (1951). Toynbee indicates that dogs were a frequent subject on Roman grave stones, ashes containers and so on; unfortunately a photographic survey is yet to be published. For a quick yet sound survey, see Riddle (cited above). American Water
Spaniel The AWS qualifies as a long-ago
cousin (although developed to the present
form by Dr. F.J. Pfeifer of Wisconsin in the 1920s) because lookalikes are present in pre-Civil War photos, and behind the AWS we find Irish Water Spaniels of an earlier type than the IWS we know today. The Boykin Spaniel (South Carolina) is a close relative of the AWS. Up until 1987, all the basenjis outside Africa were descended from 12 original stock dogs. Breeders and lovers of the breed became concerned about the limited gene pool and an African expedition was planned. In 1987 to 1988, a group of Americans traveled to Zaire and brought back 14 basenjis. These dogs were accepted by kennel clubs and have been used to increase the
gene pool,
with the goal of reducing the potential risk of genetic abnormalities. The most unique feature of the dog is his inability to bark. The main questions related to the bitch hormonal cycle and their consequences for breeding management Termination of anoestrus. The bitch is characterised by a long and obligate anoestrus. The
factors regulating termination of anoestrus and reinitiation of the next oestrus cycle are not yet clear Regulation of corpus luteum during pregnant and non-pregnant diestrus. The most recent studies depict a time related and dose dependent corpus luteum hormono-dependancy with prolactin being the major luteotropin. LH
appearing more
as a facultative luteotropin enhancing directly or indirectly progesterone secretion.  Ovulation, maturation, and fecundation of the oocytes in bitches. Recent data suggest that ovulation is probably synchronous for all follicles or supposed to occur on a very short period of time. Failure to do so may lead to a false assessment, misguided treatment, and possible harm to a potential breeding bitch. The approach to infertility in the bitch described here is used in the clinical practices of the authors and is presented as a guide for dog owners and veterinarians to use together. ESTROUS CYCLE AND
VAGINAL CYTOLOGY:A brief review of the canine estrous cycle, including reproductive hormone patterns and vaginal cytology, follows to provide the necessary background for understanding the rationale of the diagnostic approach discussed in this article. INITIAL EVALUATIONThe initial evaluation of an apparently infertile bitch includes collecting a general medical
history and complete physical examination. The Lectro-Kennel dog house heaters are a simple, affordable way to keep your pet comfortable. Constructed of rugged ABS plastic with a steel wrapped cord, the Lectro-Kennel can lie flat on the dog house
floor or can be attached to the wall. Heating pads which are designed for humans can get too hot and cause blistering and
hair loss in animals. An internal thermostat keeps the temperature of the Lectro-Kennel pad at a desirable and pet-safe 100 degrees when in use.   6 Pages &    44 pages. Kudos to for finding and hosting these files. Also available in . An is available for this document. This safety module is intended to be used as a refresher safety awareness session and is in no way to be used as a substitute for job training nor for proper equipment use. The theory behind this practice is that bacteria present in the cranial vagina may indicate bacteria in the normally sterile uterus; the problem with this hypothesis, however, is that bacteria of
many types have been isolated from the
cranial vagina, and hence it cannot be considered a normally sterile environment. A positive culture from the cranial vagina does
not necessarily reflect
the presence of bacteria in the uterus. the only way to determine accurately whether there are bacteria within the uterus is by uterine biopsy and culture of uterine tissue. bacterial cultures of the caudal vagina are commonly positive and are indicative of the normal bacteria that inhabit that area. Among other things, this manual covers: Prevention and control
of diarrheal diseases (CDD) in the context of primary health care activities; Use of oral rehydration therapy (ORT) on a widespread basis in rural communities. and; Identification and referral of dehydration cases. See also: [PDF] Knowledge of how the human body is constructed and how it works is an important part of the training of everyone concerned with healing the sick or managing conditions following injury. Then place a fan nearby to cause evaporative cooling. Be careful not to cool the animal too much. While cooling, take the animal's temperature every five minutes to prevent hypothermia
(overcooling). When the temperature reaches 103 degrees Fahrenheit, stop the cooling process. As soon as possible, bring the pet to the nearest veterinarian for further evaluation and treatment. This is important because your pet may be dehydrated and need intravenous fluids or other medical treatment for organ injury. This can occur up to several days after the event. The best treatment for heat stroke is prevention. Here are some suggestions for prevention:  Training never ends for dogs: it's a daily affair. You must be consistent with your dog and not expect overnight miracles.     Boredom  Remember that barking dogs are communicating. We have to understand what the dog is trying to say and handle the communication
appropriately. This is not always easy, but it can be done with some patience. The secret is to start early with the barking, and never let it get out of hand. Back to top Excessive Energy  The most productive suggestion is to
help the dog get
adequate exercise in a situation of your choosing.Letting him or her choose the situation only leads to high blood pressure and
broken china.
Several
notable public figures have spoken
out against animal over population, including Bob Barker. On his game show, , Barker stressed the problem at the end of every episode, saying: "Help control the pet population. Have your pets spayed or neutered." The current host, Drew Carey, makes a similar plea at the conclusion of each episode.The Price Is Right Working, utility and assistance dogs There are several types of working dogs: Limit their exposure to temperatures
which you might personally find only mildly hot, be conscious of your dog's proximity to hot pavement, NEVER leave your Frenchie in a locked car in even warm weather, and always allow them lots of access to fresh water, shade, and cool areas to escape from heat. Be alert, and be prepared with the things you need to save your dog's life. A complete blood count (CBC or hemogram) to assess the severity of dehydration and cardiovascular stress. Tests of coagulation including: activated coagulation time (ACT); prothrombin time (OSPT); partial thromboplastin time (APTT); serum fibrinogen concentration;
platelet count; and fibrin degradation products (FDPs) to identify the presence of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) a life-threatening body-wide failure of blood clotting that is often a complication of heat stroke. The presence of breakdown products of fibrin (called fibrin degradation products) can serve as an important clue to the presence of DIC. Serum biochemistry tests to check blood glucose concentration, assess the extent of damage to vital organs, such as muscles,
kidneys and liver, and to evaluate the electrolyte and acid base status. Move your dog to a cool place such as an air conditioned room. 2. Take rectal temperature every 10 minutes to see if it is coming down. 3. If rectal
temperature if 104F -110F (40C - 43C) cool your dog with cool water from something like a garden hose or bucket, a cool water bath, ice packs applied to the abdomen or groin area or place in front of a fan. Seek veterinary care immediately for canine heat stroke. Heat stroke can be particularly dangerous if you cannot cool your dog's temperature within 20 minutes 4. Wipe paws with cool water (paws are the only area on a dog that can sweat). 5. Once temperature reaches 103F or less than stop cooling to avoid hypothermia.
They also seem to be obsessed with keeping themselves clean. Many have compared the breed's fastidious nature to that of a cat. Like cats, these dogs are independent, but they do not enjoy quiet time alone. The basenji is an affectionate dog but may not be the best choice for families with very young children. If appropriately socialized, the breed can live well with older children. Wary of strangers, the breed is a good watchdog, alerting owners of approaching intruders with their strange vocalizations. The basenji tends to be easy to housetrain but doesn't always do well with other training. With patience and consistency, some basenjis have proven to be excellent lure coursing competitors. In some unfortunate situations where the heat stroke victim has experienced a dangerously high body temperature for a length of time such that too many brain and
other body cells
have been damaged, no matter what life saving measures are employed and bioprotective medications are administered, death will result. FINAL THOUGHTS This is a serious condition which you need to be aware of not only while hunting your hounds but there are a lot of people that participate in other forms of recreation with their running hounds like lure coursing or even playing in a dog park. Some girls will only come in once year, while others may even come in every four months, but often these "extra" seasons are not always fertile. Once a female has her first season, you need to track
subsequent seasons to find out
what her natural pattern will be. That said,
let's talk about signs
a female is in season. In my experience, a female will usually: Show a change in mood shortly before her season commences, acting a bit touchy. Doggie PMS? Who can say for sure? Sometimes, but not always, the breasts will swell slightly. This can also be a sign of a phantom pregnancy, when a female may begin to show signs of
being pregnant even if she's not, so watch if this happens, but it usually resolves itself in a few weeks after the cycle ends. Typically, when your dog has her first heat, it will be a "split heat" in which she will develop a swollen vulva and have bloody discharge but she won't actually ovulate (release eggs) or let male dogs mount her. But about 2 to 6 weeks later you'll probably notice that she's in heat again; this is your dog's first real full heat cycle. How often will my dog have a heat cycle? Dogs come into heat baout twice a
year with about 5 to 8 months in between each heat. Will my elderly dog go into heat? Older female dogs do not go through menopause, but after 7 years, your dog's heat cycle will get further and further a part. Buy Doggie Diapers Flicker Image by Dance Party Duo (YOU MAY HAVE TO DOUBLE CLICK ON THIS LINK - IT'S A BIT STICKY KidsHealth.org First Aid Instruction Sheets: It's practically impossible to parent a child from infancy to adolescence without encountering a situation, be it minor or major, that requires medical attention either at home or by a health care professional. But we've taken the
guesswork out of what to do in some common scenarios. Check out these sheets - or print them to keep in a folder for easy access - to help you handle some common childhood emergencies and less serious, but still scary, situations: ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; ; Also, keep these sheets on hand or posted to the fridge: ; Disease has caused far greater losses of
manpower during past military operations, than have direct combat deaths.