Even with a small telescope, Uranus can be hard to find. Through larger telescopes, it appears as a greenish disc, without any distinguishing marks. LOCAL HISTORY When Wilhelm Herschel spotted it in 1781, he named it "the Georgium Sidus" (the Georgian Planet). It was later given the name Uranus (the Greek god of the heavens), to continue the tradition of naming planets after Classical gods. No one knows for certain what happened to Uranus to make it like this. This means that
each of Uranus' poles faces away from the Sun for half of the planet's orbit. So each pole alternates between nights and days that last for 42 years. Like the gaseous giants Jupiter and Saturn, Uranus has a system of rings. They are so dark however,
that even visitors to the Uranian system will not be able to see them directly. The only way to spot them is by observing as they block the light of stars beyond.When you arrive Discover what Saturn's famous rings are made from Uranus has no distinct surface on which to land. But it's thought that Uranus has a core of rock and ice. PO Box 1080 Sandia Park · NM · 87047 is a non-denominational spiritual center of healing, support, self-improvement, personal guidance, education and writing. We publish multi-media works of New Age thought and information to encourage serenity and growth in individual life choices, advance the universal search for life's meaning, and promote tolerance for positive ideas from all philosophies and religious traditions, believing as we do that truth is where you find it.Enchanted Spirit Plane of the Ecliptic: A perfect lineup of Mercury, Mars, Saturn and the corona of our Sun are captured in this Clementine spacecraft image of Earth's moon. Jupiter Mars Mercury Venus Saturn comets meteors Since the invention of the telescope, three more planets have been discovered in our solar
system: (1781), (1846), and (1930). Pluto was reclassified as a in 2006. In addition, our solar system is populated by thousands of small bodies such as and comets. Most of the asteroids orbit in a region between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, while the home of comets lies far beyond the orbit of Pluto, in the . With mission success secured, Voyager 2 arrived at Jupiter on
July 9, 1979, where it took advantage of the available energy boost and trajectory change, flying by Saturn on August 25, 1981 on its redirected course to Uranus. Despite political attempts on the ground to halt the mission at that point, Voyager 2 arrived
at the seventh planet from the Sun on January 25, 1986 and reached blue Neptune, the outermost of the gas planets, on August 25, 1989. The little robot then swung downward out of the ecliptic. Depicted as “loyal,” “fearless,” “little robots that could,” “intelligent,” “curious,” “intrepid,” and “indefatigable,” the Voyagers visited four planets, 48 moons, and dozens of rings between 1979 and 1989, more planetary bodies than any other mission. The planets and moons in our solar system have been named by astronomers (usually ,led by whoever discovered
the particular object) suggesting the name -- sometimes they tried to mythologically match moon names to planet names, but there is no rule that this must be done. Names must be submitted to and approved by a "governing board" of scientists before they are accepted by the scientific community. The two 1-ton spacecraft returned more knowledge-changing data than any mission before or since: stunning photographs that consistently revealed our solar system to be much more diverse, complex, and beautiful than anyone ever imagined, and a veritable bounty of scientific information to go along with them. On board each Voyager spacecraft is
: a 12-inch, gold-plated copper disk
carrying spoken greetings in 55 languages from Earth's peoples, along with 115 images and myriad sounds representing our home planet. Even now, both Voyager spacecraft are still communicating with Earth. Many of their instruments are still functioning, as the two spacecraft head in different directions out of the solar system on their . Voyager 1 has now passed the termination shock, where the solar wind abruptly slows down as it pushes against the interstellar medium. He had to dig
his heels into the dinosaur's tough skin and push
himself up slowly, grabbing handfuls of skin to hold onto. The Brachiosaurus didn't even react to Charlie. He finally got to just below the head and heard a few of the kids cheer. He was about to go back down triumphantly, when the dinosaur started to move. A large branch almost knocked Charlie off, and he yelped, but he managed to stay on. Compare Planets Uranus To the eye alone, Uranus is a dull planet. It looks like a featureless blue-green ball, with few of the dynamic cloud patterns that decorate and . Yet Uranus may have the most interesting history of any planet in the solar system: A collision soon after its birth may have knocked the planet sideways. Jupiter Saturn View in 2008 This false-color Hubble Space Telescope image reveals
clouds in Uranus’ atmosphere (orange), the planet’s rings, and three moons. Earth Sun Detecting and tracking the clouds on Uranus is difficult, however. Uranus is so far away that it appears as little more than a fuzzy green blob in ground-based telescopes. Thus, newly discovered Uranian satellites and features on previously discovered satellites continued the theme established by William Lassell when he named the first four satellites for characters (mostly bright and dark
spirits) from Shakespeare and Pope; names for satellites of Neptune continue the "watery" theme established by the names of the planet and first two satellites. satellites You might also have a look at Uranus is a large, plain, blue-green planet which can only be seen from the Earth with the unaided eye on a clear, dark night. Guess what? Uranus is unique in our because it is tilted 98 degrees. When viewed from Earth, it appears to on its side! At different times throughout its , we can actually view . The is composed of hydrogen, helium, and methane. The temperature in the upper
atmosphere is so cold that the methane condenses and forms a thin cloud layer which gives the planet its blue-green appearance. The winds on Uranus blow mainly to the east and can reach speeds up to 600 per hour. (Submitted April 30, 1997) John Herschel, son of (who discovered Uranus), and William Lassell named the moons after characters from Shakespeare and from Alexander Pope's 'Rape of the Lock', according to The Question
We is studying about the planets and their moons. Neptune's moons are named after sea creatures. Why are Uranus's moons named after Shakespearean characters rather than something related to Uranus? The Answer By studying the pictures sent back by the Voyager spacecraft, scientists were able to see that there are winds blowing at over 645 kilometres an hour.What Is It Like on The Surface? Earth Uranus has at least fifteen moons. There are probably more, but this won't be known for sure until another spacecraft is sent to investigate. The largest, and furthest away, of Uranus' moons are Miranda, Ariel, Umbriel, Titania and Oberon. The moons are named after characters in the stories of William Shakespeare and Alexander Pope. build the Solar System? Like nearby , and , Uranus is a planet made almost entirely of gas. Uranus can occasionally be spotted with the naked
eye, if you know where to look. But it's hard as it looks very similar to the background of stars. Uranus was not known in the ancient world. It was the first planet to be discovered with the aid of a telescope. WHAT TO SEE Saturn Jupiter Neptune The atmosphere is mostly hydrogen and helium, with small quantities of methane.
The first consideration of any particular event, or remarkable incident, seems to be its chronology: if in any future age it should be asked, when this last-found Planet was discovered? It would be a very satisfactory answer to say, 'In the reign of King
George the Third
Herschel's proposed name was not popular outside of Britain, and alternatives were soon proposed. Astronomer proposed the planet be named in honour of its discoverer. , however, opted for , the Latinized version of the of the sky, . Bode argued that just as Saturn was the father of Jupiter, the new planet should be named after the father of Saturn. Bode's suggestion was the most widely used, and became universal in 1850 when , the final holdout, switched from using to . Each MIDR has an identification number of the form t-MIDR.xxHyyy;C, where t is the data type: F, C1, C2, or C3; xx is the approximate latitude
of the center of the mosaic, H is the hemisphere (N or S); yyy is the approximate longitude of the center of the mosaic; and C gives the cycle and version number. For cycle 1, C is a one digit number giving the version number. For cycles 2 and 3, C is a three digit number, with the first digit being the cycle number and the last the version number. For example, F-MIDR.15S140;301 is a full-resolution mosaicked image data
record, centered at 15 degrees south latitude and 140 degrees longitude, from the third data cycle, version 1. Nevertheless, the mission, by all accounts in the community, has been worth every single penny. On February 17, 1998, Voyager 1 cruised beyond Pioneer 10 to become the most distant human-created object in space, 6.5 billion miles (10.4 billion kilometers) from Earth, setting a new milestone in space exploration. Although it is very, very cold out in the far reaches of our solar system, where the Sun is only 1/5,000th as bright as on Earth, the radioisotope thermal electric generators (RTGs) on both spacecraft have kept them going. “The Voyagers owe their ability to operate at such great distances from the Sun to these nuclear electric power sources, which provide the electrical power they need to function,” says Stone, who has retired as director of JPL, but continues teaching and researching from his quarters at Caltech and as Voyager Project
Scientist. Charlie caught a
glimpse of them, but he was too busy shimmying down the Brachiosaurus' neck to notice much of anything. When they got to the river, the Brachiosaurus began to lower its neck to the water, but Charlie wasn't down all the way yet. He had to scramble backwards and uphill to get to the body, and he just made it before the animal's tiny head was in the water. Yes, in the form of the Magellan C3-MIDRs. These are sinusoidal equal area projections of compressed Magellan radar images, and are available on the Magellan CD-ROMs (NSSDC Data Set ). More information on these DIMs and DIMs of other planets and satellites is available on the URL: PSPG-00175 Digital Image Models Page. What is meant by "Cycle 1" data? The Magellan project for convenience divided up the observing periods for Magellan delineated by the time it took the orbiter to cover 360 degrees of
longitude. This time is equal to the sidereal day of Venus, ~243 Earth days, or roughly eight months. INSIDE URANUSUranus is a frozen, gaseous planet. : The planet is shrouded in an icy cloud layer (made
up of frozen methane, ethane, and acetylene) circling this planet at 185 mph (300 kph. Uranus' icy atmosphere consist of 83% ,15% , and 2% . The outer layers of the atmosphere are the coldest; temperature and pressure rise under the cloud layer. :
Beneath the
atmosphere, there is a liquid layer of hydrogen and helium. As depth increases, this layer becomes more viscous, and then partly solid. The directory names are then obtained by dividing the spacecraft clock time by 100 and eliminating the decimal places. If necessary, the number is padded at the beginning with zeros so that six numbers are present in the name. For
example, an image taken at 00180626.00 spacecraft clock time becomes image number 2600R on directory C001806.i.e. What is all this I hear about an upcoming planetary alignment? What effect will this have on the Earth and how frequently do these things
occur? The planets Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter,
and Saturn will be more or less lined up on 5 May 2000. There will be no observable physical effect on the Earth from this alignment. Rather than having to deal with
extraordinarily large numbers, the time is reduced in two ways to come up with the exposure number. First, the time is taken modulo 65,536 (16 bit) to come up with the first five digits of the exposure number (which, padded appropriately with zeros on the left becomes the xxxxx part). Second, the time is taken modulo 60 to come up with the last two digits of the
number (the yy part). From the exposure
number xxxxx.yy, one takes the first four digits and sets them equal to the nnnn portion of the directory. For the image names, one just elimates the decimal place. For example, the image 8966.31 can be found in the directory C0896XXX as file C0896631.IMG. What do the file names for the images and directories on the Galileo CD-ROMs mean? Uranus has a very strong magnetic
field. This planet has which was not discovered until 1977. The ring system contains eleven dark rings composed of varying sized particles. embedded in the rings create gaps between the rings. Uranus has , both within the rings and outside of the rings. solar system rotate orbit one of the planet's poles head-on atmosphere kilometers a system of rings Satellites 27 known natural satellites It was stripping leaves and entire branches from the treetops. As it ate, the kids were getting showered with shredded bits of leaves and twigs. The Sun was blazing overhead and Charlie was sweating, but not entirely from the heat. He took a very deep breath, gritted his teeth, and started running
toward the Brachiosaurus.