Target audience -
High-net-worth families & individuals, Executives &
Businessmen, Overseas Buyers, Automobile Professionals, Corporate Buyers - CEOs, Decision Makers, Transport Operators, Tourism &
Hospitality, Engineers, Technicians, Media & Press. Exhibitor's Profile: Profile for exhibit include Luxury Cars, Passenger Cars, Specialist Vehicles, Motorcycles, Scooters and Mopeds, and off-road vehicles Manufacturers & Dealers of Automobiles, Components and
Accessories, Audio Video Equipment,
Car-Care Products, Environment and Safety Equipment, Garage and Service Equipment, Moulds and Dyes, Oils & Lubricants, Petrol vending machines, Tyres, Batteries and Auto Electricals, Upholstery. Exhibitor's Profile: Manufacturers & Producers of Adventure sports, Indoor
sports, Medicine & nutrition,
Outdoor sports, Sports equipments & accessories, Sports wear & accessories, Antiques, Automotive & accessories, Beauty services & accessories, Comics, Electronics & technologies, Models and handicrafts, Toys & games, Recreation, Country clubs, Entertainment park, Golf clubs, Gym & fitness club,
Health centre, Hotels and resorts, Sports centre, Travel agency will be exhibitng. Organizer: Clifford Lee Award David A. Odahowskis presentation of the David R. Roberts Youth in Philanthropy Award to the Imperial Dance Company at the AFP National Philanthropy Day Awards Ceremony in Orlando, Florida on November 15, 2006.
Included are Mr. Odahowskis remarks about the inaugural presentation of the H. Clifford Lee Award made later in the
program.
  A Life Well Spent: A Eulogy H. Clifford Lees Eulogy, delivered by David Odahowski, at Mr. Lees Memorial Service on August 31, 2006 at Knowles Memorial Chapel on the Rollins College campus. Orlando Home Show has expanded and its better than ever with more diverse exhibits, more categories and more interactive presentations on the fabulous stage! The show offers a unique and broad selection of home improvement-related businesses. You'll enjoy various
entertaining features and special guest speakers. Get ideas, investigate new products, gather information and meet the professionals to
help you make your next remodeling, renovation, or decorating project a breeze! WEFTEC draws thousands of water and wastewater professionals from around the world each year, including: Collection Systems Managers,
Consultants, District Managers, Environmental
Engineers/Chemists/Scientists,
Equipment Manufacturers and Representatives, Executive Managers, Industrial Water & Wastewater Treatment Professionals, Water & Wastewater Utility Managers, Water & Wastewater Operators. Exhibitor's Profile: At Weftec, the following water, waste
and environmental products will fall under the spotlight: Actuators, Biological systems, Environmental
monitoring, Filters, Groundwater &
boreholes, Industrial effluent treatment, Information systems, Irrigation, Laboratory equipment & services, Leak detection, Pipes, pumps & fittings, Pollution control, Sewage plant suppliers & designers, Sewage systems, Water supply companies, Water treatment systems, Water
& waste water treatment. Orlando Orange
County Convention Center South and West Concourses are located on International Drive, convenient
to I-4 and Route 528 (The
Beachline Expressway).  The North
Concourse entrance is on Universal Boulevard, also convenient to I-4 and Route 528 (The
Beachline Expressway). The Orange County Convention
Center (OCCC) is a world unto itself and bills itself as he Center of Hospitality  Orlando Florida is the best place to hold a convention; it just about begs you to bring the entire family with you!  With the abundance of family style hotels, variety of restaurants, the miles and miles of shopping and all of the theme parks and family attractions! DBC produces 80 face-to-face events in North America, Europe and Australia. Its trade show brands include , Hasselback has led the events, publishing and eMedia activities of Diversified Communications since 2003 and will now oversee all of the company’s division  <Trade Show Executive> Nancy HasselbackThe International Boston Seafood ShowAll Things Organic and Kosherfest.   THOUGHT FOR THE WEEK     -- Anne Morrow Lindbergh    American author (1906-2001) Highlights include Golf Demo Day, Equipment Test Center, Education Conference, Fashion Shows, Dream Golf Shop, Hot Zone New Product Center etc.
Visitor's Profile: PGA Professionals, Retail Buyers, Golf Professionals, Golf Travel
Professionals, Course Owners & CEO's, Course Superintendents, Club Managers, Tournament Directors, Coaches & Teachers & General Public are the
target visitors. Exhibitor's Profile: Profile for exhibit include Golf Equipment, Golf Products and Service, Golf and Resort
Apparel, Travel, Teaching Aids, Course Signage and Fixtures, Turf and Course Maintenance, Golf Carts, and Club
Management. " Room Service Provided by UNO Chicago Grill " Children 17yrs and under stay free Special need rooms " TDD (TTY) Phone available on request " Service animals allowed for persons with disabilities " Courteous Staff For Room Features see our Accommodations Page All
guests will enjoy a complimentary continental breakfast and access to the hotel's heated outdoor pool. Free USA Today newspapers are available each morning in the hotel
lobby. All rooms feature free high-speed Internet
access and a host of other amenities including a
coffee maker, hairdryer, and iron w/ironing board. Designed by industry professionals for industry
professionals, the Expo is a dynamic environment for professional education, innovation, and advancement. Now in its 8th year, the show attracts over 3,500 attendees from across the US, Europe, and Asia. Visitor's Profile: Fabricators, Architects/Designers,
Distributors/Retailers, Kitchen & Bath
(dealer, designer, specialist or remodeler), Remodelers / Builders, Woodworkers / Cabinet Makers, Tool & Machinery Manufacturers are the target audience.
More than 10,000 professionals will gather in Orlando, Florida, November 4-7, 2009 to combine business, pleasure, education and dive industry advancement -
for a winning combination. Highlights: In November over 10,000 dive and travel industry professionals from around the
world gathered in Orlando, Florida to take part in the world's premier trade exhibition for the scuba
diving, snorkeling, ocean sports and adventure/dive
travel industries. This event showcased over 700
exhibitors on a show floor that spaned over 185,000 square feet, and offered the most extensive educational program in the industry. This Midwest event is the meeting place for the industry dedicated solely to the ever-changing apparel, sportswear, embroidery, screen-printing and promotional products industry. Join ISS, where the industry will come together to conduct business, create networking opportunities, launch new products and learn first hand how to improve ROI, increase production, decrease costs, and more. Visitor's Profile: Trade Visitors - importers & exporters of athletic apparel and t-shirts, bags and luggage, computer services and equipment, digital equipment, to labels, outerwear, screen printing, etc. The
Orlando Gift Show presents hundreds of exhibiting companies, including leading Southeastern sales representatives and top manufacturers, showcasing items in virtually every product category. Visitor's Profile: Professionals related to the field of Specialty retail, chain,
department, gift, home furnishing/ decorative accessory, bed/ bath linen stores, book stores, bridal, children's gifts, craft & hobby, dollar stores, florist/garden, gallery/ museum, gift basket, kitchen
stores, wholesaler/distributors, premium incentive buyers, card stores. Applying Materials, Digital Printing Technologies, Screen Printing Technologies, Illuminated Equipments, Fitting Equipment and Materials, Ad.Signs, Printing Applyings, Guidance and Info Systems, Design and Display Systems,
Audio-Light and Display Systems, Decorative Illumination, Outdoor Media Marketing, Supplier and Manufacturers in the Equipment and Materials for Design & Graphic Arts
fields. Organizer: 707 N. Saint Asaph Street, Alexandria, United States Of America. Tel: +(1)-(703)-8364012 Fax: +(1)-(703)-8368353 International Sign Association Orange County Convention Center (OCCC) Orlando, Florida United States Of America Event
Profile: AGG1 Aggregates Fourm & Expo 2009 focuses exclusively on the aggregates industry, & is the industrys leading exposition and education resource. AGG1 features in-depth industry-focused educational programming & comprehensive exhibits showcasing the latest technologies & innovations in aggregates-related equipment, products and services. Visitor's Profile: Company Owners, Plant Managers, Regional Managers, Technical Professionals, Senior Managers, Superintendents, Engineers, Safety Managers and Buyers from the company are the target visitors. The PGA Merchandise Show is the premier marketplace for golf manufacturers, course management, apparel, and other golf related products and services. By providing both attendees and exhibitors with the forum to network and further develop their careers through Educational Conferences, as well as the opportunity to test products first hand through interactive events, The PGA Merchandise Show is
unmatched within the industry.