Attitude is another important element. Employers look for people who are zestful
and willing to work. Prior to the job fair as well as the interview, be sure to plan ahead if who are the employers you want to work for. Dressing up for the fair or the interview is a helpful tip. Dress professionally and do not wear too much make up. Dress up in a conservative but decent way. Do not be too conscious and just carry your self with the confidence needed. Ask the interviewer to clarify fuzzy questions. Don't interrupt the interviewer. If you don't listen, the interviewer won't either. Don't be overly familiar, even if the interviewer is. Don't ramble. Overlong answers may make you sound apologetic or indecisive. Don't lie. Answer questions truthfully. Don't express resentment. Avoid derogatory remarks about present or former employers.
Don't wear heavy perfume /cologne. The interviewer may not share your tastes. Closing the Interview Job candidates often second-guess themselves after interviews. Usually a member of the personnel department or an outside recruiter conducts this interview, which is meant to weed out unqualified candidates. This interview is often done over the phone. It focuses on clarifying and confirming the qualifications on your resume. Initial Interview The initial interview is conducted by someone from the human resources department. They figure out if you fit the job description and can do the job. They will then determine whether to pass you on to the hiring manager. Do's and Don'ts at Job Interviews   To ensure you dont sabotage the job
interview, make sure you follow these basic dos and
donts during and after the job interview. DO: Do be enthusiastic, but dont go overboard Do be prepared to qualify and or give reasoning behind your answers Do practice and prepare responses in front of family and friends  even the mirror Do research the position and the company, so you can respond appropriately If you wish to be in the sales team,
you need to know about the products and services they are selling. Your interviewer will be impressed you have taken the time to research the
information and it will add marks on your assessment. It is okay to ask the interviewer any questions you might have about the position that you are applying for. This actually exhibits the level of interest and desire you have for the job and it is considered a positive trait.