is one of the busiest airports in the
world. Located on the southern coast of California, Los Angeles International Airport handles thousands of domestic and international commercial flights every year.Los Angeles Airport (LAX) Located 15 miles (24 kilometers) southwest of Los Angeles, Los Angeles International Airport provides travelers with extensive and modern facilities, with convenient transport links by road and rail. LAX Airport flies international passengers and cargo traffic to and from the five-county Southern California region, serving 88 airlines through nine terminals. Commercial service began at LAX in 1946, with domestic and international terminals and a second-level roadway added in the 1980s. With its increasingly expanding air cargo system, Los
Angeles
International Airport is a commerce leader and is set for further major expansion from 2006. Los Angeles World Airport Guide provides you with access to a complete selection of . The Airport metro stop is in Terminal 2, reasonably close to Terminals 1 and 3. The entrance is on the lower floor of Terminal 2, off a corridor that also leads to Parking Lot P2. The stop is well signposted. Although a Metro connection is being built to Terminal 4, it is not yet ready. RH6 0NPSouth Terminal: [Back to top] Drop-off and pick-up Drivers may set passengers down in the designated areas on the terminal forecourts. However, for security reasons there is a strict no-waiting policy on the forecourt. If you wish to accompany passengers into the terminal you must use
the . Short Stay Car Park If you are picking passengers up from the airport, you must use the Short Stay Car Park. Book your Los Angeles hotel and flights in one convenient purchase. Click Here Great savings on flights to and from Los Angeles Airport. Click Here Los Angeles International Airport Ground Transportation Introduction Los
Angeles International
Airport is served directly by shuttle, bus, and taxi.
Public transportation is also available for travel both to and from the airport. Shuttle Services Outbound buses, shuttles, hotel or rental cars, and courtesy
vans can be picked up from the designated
areas on the lower / arrival level islands in front of each terminal. The items you'll need to present to a Transportation Security Officer at the checkpoint are: Boarding pass Identification ( to see a list of acceptable IDs) click here We encourage each adult traveler to keep his/her airline boarding pass and government-issued photo ID available until exiting the security checkpoint
(children are not required to show
identification). If
you do not have identification (if it is lost, stolen, etc.),
you will be required to provide the document checking officer with some
information to help verify your
identity. This will slow down your screening process and will result in additional screening. Hassle-Free Security Tips Arrival time recommendations vary by airline and day of travel, so check with your carrier. Remember to give yourself adequate time to check your baggage and move through security.Arrive on time. Effective June 21,
2008, adult passengers (18
and over) are required to show a U.S.
federal or state-issued photo ID that contains the following: name, date of birth, gender, expiration date and a tamper-resistant feature in order to be allowed to go through the checkpoint and onto their flight. Passengers who do not or cannot present an acceptable ID will have to provide information to the Transportation Security Officer performing Travel Document Checking duties in order to verify their identity. Information on courtesy cars from local hotels that serve DFW.... Courtesy Cars Information on Shared Ride providers that serve DFW.... Shared Ride Information on limousine providers that serve DFW…. Limousines Information on registered charter bus companies that serve DFW…. Charter Buses /td> GT Business Operations New
and existing driver applications, ground transportation rules & regulations and contact information are available here.... learn more The rule limits the volume of liquids, gels and aerosols to bottles 3 ounces or smaller (or 100 ml), in 1 quart-sized zip top bag, and 1 bag per traveler. TSA implemented the 3-1-1 policy in response to the thwarted liquid explosive bomb plot in the United Kingdom in August of 2006. Today, the wide-spread acceptance of that policy demonstrates the international understanding of the threat to aviation from liquid explosives. to view a full-size version. Acceptable Documents DHS "Trusted Traveler" cards (NEXUS, SENTRI, FAST) U.S. Military ID (active duty or retired military and their dependents) Permanent Resident Card
Border Crossing Card DHS-designated enhanced driver's license Drivers Licenses or other state photo identity cards issued by Department of Motor Vehicles (or equivalent) that meets REAL ID benchmarks (All states are currently in compliance) A Native American Tribal Photo ID An airline or airport-issued ID (if issued under a TSA-approved security plan) A foreign government-issued passport Canadian provincial driver's license or Indian and Northern Affairs Canada (INAC) card Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) Non-US/Canadian citizens are not required to carry their passports if they have documents issued by the U.S. government such as Permanent Resident Cards. Those who do not should be carrying their passports while visiting the
U.S. Flare
Guns - May be carried as checked baggage MUST
be unloaded, packed in
a locked hard-sided container, and declared to the airline at check-in. . Read our section on Camping No Gun Powder including black powder and percussion caps No Parts of Guns and Firearms No No Yes Check with your airline or travel agent to see if firearms are permitted in checked baggage on the airline you are flying. Ask about limitations or fees, if any, that apply.NOTE: Drills and drill bits (including cordless portable power drills) No Saws (including cordless portable power saws) No Tools (greater than seven inches in length) No Tools (seven inches or less in length) Traveling
with Food or Gifts How to Pack Food and Gift Items When it comes to bringing items through checkpoints, we've seen just about everything. Traveling with food or
gifts is an even bigger challenge. Everyone
has favorite foods from home that they want to bring to holiday dinners, or items from their destination that they want to bring back home. Not sure about what you can and can't bring through the checkpoint? Here's a list of liquid, aerosol and gel items that you should .put in your checked bag, ship ahead, or leave at home Cranberry sauce Creamy dips and spreads (cheeses, peanut butter, etc.) Gift baskets with food items (salsa, jams and salad dressings) Gravy Innocent items can actually appear to be potential threats in an X-ray image, simply by the way they're packed.Pack an organized carry-on bag using layers However, please be advised that you will be required to remove these items from your carry-on bag and submit them separately for x-ray
screening. . Small electronics, such as iPods, can remain in your carry-on.Do not pack oversized electronics (laptops, full-size video game consoles, DVD players and video cameras that use cassettes) in your checked baggage when possible. Click here for "checkpoint friendly" laptop bag procedures Prepare your 1 quart-sized, clear, plastic, zip-top bag of liquids before arriving at the
airport. For more information on liquid rules: 3-1-1 for carry-ons, . click here All coats and jackets must go through the X-ray machine for inspection.Pack all your coats and jackets in your checked baggage when possible. Passengers wishing to connect with the main train stations for travel outside Madrid should use the Metro. There is no direct airport link to the main rail network. Taxi Services Official taxi stands are located outside the ground floor in all terminals. In Terminals 2 and 3 the stands are located close to the baggage claims. Journey time to central Madrid is 25 to 30 minutes, depending on traffic, which can be heavy. On starting the journey, passengers should check that the taxi driver has set the meter running. At its end, passengers may ask for a receipt. Note that passengers should take a taxi from a stand rather than from
unofficial drivers offering taxis inside the terminal. Inform the Security Officer if you think the child may become upset during the screening process as a result of their disability. Offer suggestions on how to best accomplish the screening to minimize any confusion or outburst for the child. Ask the Security Officer for assistance during the process by helping you put your and the
child's carry-on items on
the X-ray belt.
California Airports Information and Flight
Reservations     OR  to
California  / International Distance US Distance
weather-roads,etc. California is
served by a vast array of airports that include international airports and dozens serving the United States. The international airports include Los Angeles International Airport, Oakland International Airport, Ontario International Airport, San Francisco International Airport, San Jose International Airport, Sacramento International Airport and San Diego International Airport. Los Angeles International Airport is the third busiest airport in the world, just under Atlanta and Chicago. It offers the most flights to Southern California of any of the local airports. The domed building pictured above
has is a futuristic
restaurant which offers
views of "LAX" flights.    California Airports / Nevada
Airports
serving California Code More than 70 percent of the world's air travelers now experience enhanced security measures at the checkpoint. The next time you hear a
transportation
security officer reminding
passengers to finish their iced coffees before going
through airport security, remember that
as a
global citizen, you are not alone. Additional Resources You may
be directed to additional screening if your headwear or
clothing (religious or otherwise) is loose fitting or large enough to hide prohibited items. For more information, .Head Coverings. click here Travelers are required to remove their shoes before entering the walk-through metal detector at all U.S. airports and put them through the x-ray machine for inspection. This allows officers to see if the shoes have been tampered with in any way.Shoes. Have the Following Ready to view a full-size version. For more information visit , click on Passengers, then Preparing to Fly. www.faa.gov. No No Yes Any sharp objects in checked baggage should be sheathed or securely wrapped to prevent injury to baggage handlers and Security Officers.NOTE: Explosive &
Flammable Materials, Disabling Chemicals
& Other
Dangerous Items Explosive Materials Aerosol (any except for
personal care or toiletries in limited quantities) No Fuels
(including cooking fuels and any flammable liquid fuel) No The FlyAway bus service leaves Terminal 1 and picks up on the lower level at the Bus Stop sign. Between 5:30 am and 12:00 midnight, the service runs every 30 minutes. From 12:00 midnight to 5:30 am, it runs 12:15 am, 12:30 am, 1:15 am, 2:15 am, 2:45 am, 3:30 am, 4:15 am, and 4:45 am. Free shuttle service to the Metropolitan Transit Authority Metro Green Line Light Rail's Aviation station also leaves from the lower level under the LAX Shuttle sign. Line 200 stops at Terminals 1, 2 and 3 and links the airport with the Avenida de Amica. The bus stops are located at Arrivals/Departures. Passengers should use this service to travel between Terminals 1, 2 and 3 and the city centre. Line 101 links Barajas Metro, Terminals 1 and 2, and various other convenient stops. For example: can the child stand
slightly away from equipment to be handwanded, walk through the metal detector, or needs to be carried through the metal detector by the parent/guardian. Know that all no time should the Security Officer remove your child from his/her mobility aid (wheelchair or scooter). You are responsible for removing your child from his/her equipment at your discretion to accomplish screening. Know that if your child is unable to walk or stand, the Security Officer will conduct a pat-down search of your child while he/she remains in their mobility aid, as well as a visual and physical inspection of their equipment. Any sharp objects in checked baggage should be sheathed or securely wrapped to prevent injury to baggage handlers and inspectors.NOTE: Carry-on Checked Ammunition - Check with your airline or travel agent to see if ammunition is permitted in checked baggage on the airline you are flying. If ammunition is permitted, it must be declared to the airline at check-in. Small arms ammunitions for personal use must be securely packed in fiber, wood or metal boxes or other packaging specifically designed to carry small amounts of ammunition. Ask about limitations or fees, if any, that apply. . Read our
Firearms & Ammunition
section No No Yes Compressed Air Guns (to include paintball markers) - Carried in checked luggage
without compressed air cylinder attached. No Yes Firearms -
firearms carried as checked baggage MUST be unloaded, packed in a locked hard-sided container, and declared to the airline at check-in. News & Happenings June 5, 2007 You arrive at the checkpoint to the sound of a transportation security officer reminding travelers to remove liquids, gels and aerosols from carry-ons. To the seasoned traveler this is old news, but to the seasonal traveler it might be a surprise. Regardless of your personal travel
experience, the international traveling community agrees – TSA's 3-1-1 for liquids makes security sense. Use the "A" bus for airlink connections. Frequent, free shuttles are available between each terminal for making airline connections. Use the "A" shuttle from under the LAX Shuttle sign. Bus Services City buses can be boarded adjacent to parking lot "C" by taking the "C" shuttle. Other public buses serving LAX include Culver City Bus Lines, Santa Monica Big Blue Bus, and Torrance Transit. Bus information is available in the baggage claim area of each terminal. Taxi Services Taxis are available from curbside on the lower level. Passengers will be given a ticket stating the typical fare to major destinations. Ask a Security Officer for help gathering your bags and child-related equipment, if you need it. The Walk-Through Metal Detector If your child
can walk without your
assistance, we recommend that you and your child walk through the metal detector separately. If you are carrying your child through the metal detector and the alarm sounds, our Security Officer will have to additionally screen both you and your child. Remove babies and children from their strollers or infant carriers so that our Security Officers can screen them individually. You may
not pass the child to another person behind you or in front of you during this process. Do not pass your child to our Security Officer to hold. Our Security Officer may ask for your help screening your child. Travel Tips Medications, baby formula and food, breast milk, and juice are allowed in reasonable quantities exceeding three ounces and are not required to be in the zip-top bag. Click Here Madrid Barajas International Airport Ground Transportation Madrid Barajas Airport (MAD) Ground Transportation Introduction Madrid Barajas Airport (MAD) is served by taxi, Metro and bus. Transfers between
Terminals 1, 2, 3 and 4 are by shuttle bus. (Additionally, to get from Terminal 4 to its satellite T4S, travellers use a special train service.) Transportation
Time Airport authorities advise those travelling to Terminal 4 to consult with their airline or agent on how much time to allow for the journey. Since Terminal 4 is not yet connected to the Metro network journey time will be longer than for journeys to the older terminals. The terminal is also very large, so regular travellers may have to adjust their schedules. Metro The Madrid Metro
system is efficient and covers most of the city. From the Airport trains run between 6:00 am and 1:45 am every day.