Time has brought about many changes along the Ouachita since the days of the Indians....yet there still remains today many areas along the river that are reminiscent of the times when the only ones who walked the banks and floated its waters were the Indians...areas where one feels as though being transported back in time. Many of the bayous,
brakes, backwater ponds and lakes along the course of the
Ouachita have survived the ravages of time and continue, as in the past, to
provide habitat and cover for the abundant wildlife living
along its banks.
It is home to two universities, and , and an outstanding public school system. and have both been designated among the National Schools of Excellence. Henderson State Ouachita Baptist Arkadelphia High School Perritt Elementary School A
combination of all these things and more give the people of Arkadelphia and Clark County an extraordinarily favorable quality of life, and make Arkadelphia A Great Place to Call Home . Related content Turn right onto Country Club Road and then
make an immediate left into the Youth Sports Complex. From Caddo Valley enter Arkadelphia on Hwy 67 and turn right onto Country Club Road at Pizza Hut. Proceed down Country Club road until after you pass a car wash, laundromat and an apartment complex and turn right into the Youth Sports Complex. The soccer fields are on the far side of the Youth Sports Complex from the entrance road. We want
you,
and your child, to join us in the number one exercise recommended for new moms&walking. We start with a warm up, and then use the environment around us for a
workout. Next comes a 20 minute walk, followed by full workout with weights
when we return. A playgroup follows, so everyone can relax and allow their children to interact. FAYETTEVILLE - Chile Pepper Running Club, Inc., 1655 Woolsey
St., Fayetteville 72703. 10 members. Contact: Joe Fennel 501-521-8534 (h), 501-521-0337 (w). FAYETTEVILLE - Fayetteville Civitan Runners, 607 Park Ave., Fayetteville 72701. Founded 1961. 15 members. Contact: Wade Colwell 501-521-2696. FAYETTEVILLE - Fayetteville Tri-Sport Club, 2920 E. Zion Rd., Fayetteville 72701. Founded 1997. 86 members. Contact: Gail Maxwell 501-582-8002.         I offer
individualized massage therapy techinques to my clients, with an emphasis in Swedish, Deep Tissue, Neuromuscular, Orthopedic, Sports Massage, Manual Lymphatic Drainage Techniques, Prenatal/Labor/Postpartum and Infant Massage, and Craniosacral Therapy.   It's exciting to be working with Todd Boggs of Chiropractic Concepts and to continue to create a
positive image for massage therapy within the medical and chiropractic fields of the panhandle area. It is a fitness coaching program that adjusts to your level of fitness while continually making changes to challenge you. Members get the opportunity to learn about diet and nutrition and how it plays a part in your health. Added to that, members can connect online to find support
for their exercise and healthy eating plan. At
Peeled Orange, we pride ourselves on using only the finest natural ingredients in our massage therapy oils and formulations, in order to create a feeling of strength, vitality and well being. We have
aromatherapy massage oils for back ache, sports injury, joint
care, relaxation and much more.    Worldwide shipping is
available for the same low price of 3.75! Peeled Orange supplies Professional Massage Oils to the UK and worldwide for massage therapy  and encouragement of
health and
well-being. This means
guests can purchase a personalised spa experience based on the services and treatments in which they'd like to induldge.   Find resort spas by county Urban spas Urban spas are found in inner city areas like London an Manchester. Urban
spa venues often offer the same services as a destination or hotel spa. However, due to their location urban spas are often used in the same manner as a day spa - a quick in/out spa and beauty treatment
facility. Arrian, Ammianus Marcellinus Vitruvius, Dio
Chysostomus, . Philo,Phaedo. Laws. Sea Migration in the Roman Empire p. 97 Salvaterra C. Antiquity Migration Empires Cities / Ports Sea Letter by the soldier Apion (renamed Antonius Maximus) to his father in Philadelphia. Letter by Apollinaris (Egyptian recruit) to his mother. Dedication by Abdosir his brother Osirhamar, and their sons to Melqart, Lord of Tyre. Text on tomb of merchant Flavius Zeuxis. The long float begins on the Caddo River at the Two Rivers Canoe Rental put-in point and joins the Ouachita River 2 miles later. It then continues on for 6 more miles and ends at the Ouachita River bridge park take-out point in Arkadelphia. The long float is an 8 mile float which takes between 4 to 5 hours. What a great way
to spend the day! : Robert Bell, Steve Black, Ken Brown, Cecile
Carter, Susan Dial, Jeff Girard, Dayna Bowker Lee, LaRue Parker, Bill Martin, Sharon Mitchell, Marilyn Murrow, Tim Perttula, George Sabo III, Frank Schambach, Donna Smith Spaulding, Dee Ann Story, Mark Walters, and Don Wyckoff. TBH Spring 2003
Intern Erin Baudo scanned and/or worked with most of the photographs.Photographs Justin Hayes created most of the unattributed maps based on the shaded relief map from NationalAtlas.gov and the classic physiographic map of the United States drawn by Erwin Raisz© 1957 used by permission of Raisz Landform Maps, Brookline MA, 1-800-277-0047.   Welcome to the Federation of Canadian Naturists This
is the official site of the It
contains extensive information on naturist living and philosophy.Federation of Canadian Naturists. involves the practice of complete nudity in a communal setting. It promotes wholesomeness and stability of the human body, mind, and spirit, especially through contact of the body with the natural elements.Naturism Naturism is founded on family participation. Children in naturist families learn to appreciate the body as part of their natural environment. - History, geography and tourist information. Includes photographs of archaeological sites. The Roman Roads in the Mediterranean Region - Southampton University investigates the context of the Roman towns sites of southern Spain, taking the known sites of Seville Province,
Andalucia, as a case study. Roman Towns Project - Publishes 'Journal of Roman Studies' and 'Britannia' and monographs (abstracts online). Activities, lectures, grants. Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies
Karmyn has performed in numerous theatrical plays,egional and
national commercials as well as film. Shes an
activeember of the ActorsEquity Association and the Screen Actors Guild.
Karmyn is also a full member of the National Association of Teachers of Singing as well asn alumni and lifetime member of Sigma Alpha Iota Music Fraternity-Eta Lambda Chapter. She has recorded several demos utilizing different types of genres including country, classical, pop, and Broadway. Check-in date Or Call for Reservations: 800-551-7266 Nights: Adults: Children: Spa Claremont has been newly renovated and expanded. It features a variety of innovative treatments for men and women, plus elegant lounge areas and hydrotherapy baths with panoramic views of the city below. A superb staff including some of the industry's most highly trained professionals will assist you as you experience any of our services. Click Here to
take a photo journey down the Ouachita . . . The Ouachita River runs through the Southern States of Arkansas and Louisiana The Ouachita originates as a tiny mountain stream in the Ouachita Mountains near Eagleton, Arkansas (Northwest of Mena, AR). Downstream, the Ouachita flowsinto Lake Ouachita (near Hot Springs, AR), then after leaving a series of lakes, the Ouachita begins to take on a different appearance as it flows nearly 600 miles to join the Tensas and Little Rivers at Jonesville, Louisiana, forming the Black River. That has all
been met to come up with this perfect stretch denim leather trimmed jean to fit the swoop of the bodybuilders massive quads. STYLE #575L BODYBUILDING LEATHER
TRIM JEANItalian stretch denim  **HOT BODZ WILL ADJUST THE HEM TO
32" OR 30"  LENGTH (3-5 DAYS TO COMPLETE) Karate Workout Pant Our Price:$35.95
Karate Workout Pant!  Jump into this seasons HOTTEST fashion gym
pant! Be the first to wear these ultra comfortable cotton jersey pants, featuring contrasting double stripe sides, drawstring waist, and front facing pockets with wide leg. We believe we have the best upscale
fitness clubs for the people
of Leake, Attala, and the surrounding counties.  We have an attentive
and knowledgeable staff, a variety of the most modern workout
equipment, and  clean, comfortable facilities.   We understand that making a decision to work out is difficult.  Will I like the other members?  Will I really stick to it this time?  Did I make the right choice in
joining this particular gym?  These are fair questions that can only be
answered by trying before you commit to buying. 