We hope to be your Michigan Beach Vacation Destination! Ok,
so the surfing's not as good as
Oahu's North Shore but it is just as beautiful!!   New for 2006, this cottage style home has 4 bedrooms, 2.5 baths and a total living area 2,400 sq. ft. Plenty of room to spread out. This house is truly designed with the family in mind, with separate spaces for the
grown-ups and kids alike. Orchards full of apples, pears, peaches and cherries flow into vineyards of grapes, fields of corn, rows of strawberries and blueberries. It is the largest non-citrus fruit-growing region in the
nation. Each spring, since 1906 the
celebrates the beginning of the growing season. Blossomtime Festival Ironically, in 1839 peach trees were introduced to the area and peach production became a major economic activity. It was in 1870 that St. Joseph finally acquired a rail service through the Chicago and Michigan Lakeshore Railway. It won’t be too long before it starts warming up. This is a great place to go for
locally grown food, plus, I the Lubbers’ are great to know. Lubbers Farm 3 Comments » If I still lived in Michigan, I would definitely support this farm…even though these Lubbers’ are not related to me as far as I know. This concept is fantastic, I’m vegetarian and I would do cow-share for sure. Very cool Annie. Do you have a cow yet? Not only is Michigan diverse in its production, but
it leads the natiproduction of many commodities and
specialties: 1st in
cherries and 8th in milk
makes for a great ice cream sundae; 4th in apples and peaches, 8th in strawberries and 6th in honey and spearmint makes a delicious fruit salad; 1st in dry beans, 3rd in asparagus, 5th in sugar beets, 7th in corn and 8th in alfalfa rounds out a great menu! Edsel & Eleanor Ford House is located at
1100 Lake Shore Road Grosse Pointe
Shores, Michigan 48236 To speak with someone during
business hours, Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. - 4:30 p.m., call (313) 884-4222 Exit at the Vernier/8 Mile exit and turn right. Follow Vernier until it ends at Lake Shore Road. Turn left and continue approximately one mile. Edsel & Eleanor Ford House is on the right. Exit at the 9 Mile exit and turn left. The Midtown area has a lot going for it.  Two major hospitals, Wayne State University, the College of Creative Studies, the newly renovated and reinstalled Detroit Institute of Art,
along with multiple other cultural institutions.  What is obviously missing is the
concentration of and connections
among these assets.  But they are
now working on it. In fact, Detroit is
positioned to become one of the first cities (along, perhaps, with Cleveland) to get its anchor institutions working collaboratively.  And in Detroit's case, most of the impetus for collaboration is emerging from the institutions (rather than from a monster funder). It
is thought to have been the home of
the late Captain Pickering. In 1859, a replacement lighthouse was built on the bluff. The tower and beacon were constructed first. The lightkeeper's house was built around it later. That beacon was replaced by range lights
after the north and south piers were built in 1907 and 1919, respectively. St. Joseph and Grand Haven boast the only remaining two-pier range light systems with both towers and catwalks intact. In 1938, the U.S.              Thursday, November 6, 2008,Date:        Michigan Rooms A and B, UCEN, 9am to 11am.  Location: 
This exciting new program addresses the positive impact and results that diverse groups achieve when working and learning together. This research-based program provides an engaging and interactive educational opportunity that can benefit everyone on campus. Date: Thursday, November 6, 2008, Michigan Rooms A
and B, 9am to Noon.* We offer three rooms with Jacuzzi tub, wet bar, and refrigerator. Summer Rates Increase on weekends and for the following dates and all  holidays $25 per night. Two night minimum on weekends in  July and August and all Holidays; Memorial Day, 4th of July,  Labor Day and Apple Cider Century weekend September 29, 30, October 1, 2007 If you would like more information about or would like to make reservations, please email us at , , or call us atGordon Beach Inn Edibles Rex Restaurant and Catering Employment Central of Detroit Labor Exchange Services Empowerment Zone Coalition, Inc.
Frank and Sarah's Baby Boy Trucking Fresenius Medical Care Center Guidance Through Light to Overcome the Odds Grants and More Consulting, LLC Greater Beulah Baptist Church Higher Covenant Fellowship of Churches Jazz Network/Serengeti Learning Resource Computer Learning Rooms LINK & LIFT, Inc.
Michigan Department of Labor and Economic Growth - Rehabilitation Services Michigan Occupational Medical Services National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence Research all you can about the employer Prepare a neat folder containing your resume, certificates,
references, etc. Dress appropriately and ensure a high level of hygiene If you are a smoker, avoid smoking
for as long as possible immediately
prior to your interview Arrive 15 minutes early Rehearse answers to likely interview questions Rehearse the questions you want to ask the employer Dress appropriately for the position and industry and ensure a high level of hygieneQ. Extensive team building and management experience - we know the sort of people you want Confidential and discreet Reliable and flexible service Takes the hard work out of finding the right person for your vacancy Deal direct - each search project tailor-made to your requirements - we welcome an opportunity to come and discuss your recruitment project with you if you
wish Can respond quickly - and there is
no fee unless an offer of employment is made and accepted The Upper Peninsula is a beautiful, rugged, sparsely populated place, where severe winters are commonplace. The Lower Peninsula, home to most of the people, is dotted by small towns, large cities and fertile farmland in all directions. The shorelines
of Michigan are covered by over 115 - their mission is to warn mariners of possible danger, and they do their job well. They also stand as proud beacons to the Michigan success-story, and this state's vital relationship with the wonders of the Great Lakes. How to apply
for a job Applying for a job can be
an intimidating process. Select from the links below to
find information that will ease the way to a
successful job application: Understand what an employer looks for to gain the edge when applying for a job. What does an employer look for? Does your cover letter make a great first impression? Discover what is required and appropriate for a cover
letter. Cover letter If you need help with this application, or need it in an alternative format, or need
accommodation related to this application or program, contact the Michigan Works! Office at 1-800-562-1200. Auxiliary Aids and Services are available upon request to individuals with disabilities.  Michigan Relay Center 1-800-649-3777 (Voice and TDD). To print the Summer Youth Application, select
the button below, once the window opens, then you may print the application.  Drop off or mail completed application to your nearest Michigan Works! Sand Hills Lighthouse, also known as 5 Mile Point Lighthouse, is located about 4 miles southwest of Eagle River.  
Whitefish
Point Lighthouse, Michigan Whitefish Point Lighthouse is located north of Paradise on Whitefish Point. This sign indicates Whitefish Point Lighthouse was built in 1849. Somewhere it said it was the first lighthouse on Lake Superior.   This light was visible from Highway 17 between the Pancake River and Alona Bay.   Thunder Bay Lighthouse, Ontario Fairlane Club of America Mini Meet Classes and trophys for all Ford Powered Vehicles Contact = Show Website = Open to any 1962-76 Ford Fairlanes, Torinos, Rancheros and Mercury equivalents. Fairlane Club of America members, non-members and spectators are
welcome. Saturday August 13, 2005 Registration: 10:00 AM to 12:00 Noon Soda Jerk Diner & Dairy Bar 403 East
Main Street Hummelstown, PA 17036
  Contact: Doug Bender (717) 336-2097 (before 9PM EST) Bob Kauffman (610) 779-9224 (Morn. interview etiquette and techniques information sheet Canvassing Employers Remember, we cannot guarantee that we'll find a job for everyone, so you must also explore other options.
Contact possible employers directly and send them your resume, or look for suitable or in newspapers. jobs advertised online Our consultants can offer advice on canvassing employers and phone techniques. I have found NLP to be incredible effective for myself, and my clients.  As a result, I decided to offer
programs to train people
how to use NLP personally and professionally. Click to register for the next upcoming here NLP Training that I am offering People are capable of incredible things, however they often do not achieve their full potential. Lake Michigan Beach Vacation "The Surf Cottage" on Lake Michigan - A Northern Michigan
Romantic Getaway   Ski Lodging near Nub's Nob and Boyne Highlands!   Cheaper with more amenities than a hotel!   This new home is complete with a Sandy Beach, Amazing Views, AC, Fireplace, Pool Table, a second TV for kids and 60's period themed video library.  - Employment opportunities at a private golf, tennis and beach club located on Fishers Island, NY. Fishers Island Club   - Offers employment opportunities throughout its various divisions in Hershey, PA. Hershey Entertainment and Resorts   - Employment opportunities and benefits information. Hilton Hotels Corporation   - Worldwide employment
opportunities with Hyatt Hotels and Resorts, Park Hyatt, Golf Hyatt, Grand Hyatt and Hyatt Regency. Mondays, April 6 & 13, 7-9 p.m., $85 Register after March 26- $95 Resumes and Interviewing Does your resume need a makeover? Want to be prepared for your next job interview? Learn
effective
techniques and verbiage to
include in various types of resumes. Participate in mock job interviews
and networking sessions to
strengthen your chances of being hired for the job.
Mondays, February 16 & 23 7-9 p.m., $39