This year the Canberra Mothers Day Classic will be held at Rond Terrace, Commonwealth Park Canberra. The course follows the footpaths around the scenic Lake Burley Griffin. Regional events In 2008 regional events will be held throughout Australia. Regional Mothers Day Classic events are organised by local community groups, with advice and support from the national organisers. Pencil White Papers A printer Scissors Paper punch Crayons and colors Ribbon. To make the coupon book follow these steps: 1. First of all draw the outer lines and other designs of your choice on the white papers leaving a good margin for writing the text. 2. Then print out the coupon pages. 3. Then cut out the coupons following the outer lines on the pages. Just so long as you're out of the house by noon!"     These are real absence excuses sent to school from the parents of kids at the Wells Branch School District. Dear school please accuse John from being absent on January 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, and also 33.   Please
excuse Dianne from being absent yesterday. Here we are with a special collection of 'Mothers' Day Poems' in which the emotional feelings, love and care is emotionally as well as skillfully expressed in the name of this unique bond of love between the mother and the child in a few poetic words. You can also make this Mothers' Day special by sharing these poems with your mother on the same day. Howe also called for it to be observed each year at the national level in 1872. In fact the original idea
behind Howe's "Mother's Day" was a call for Pacifism and disarmament by all the women. Women's peace groups mostly marked early "Mother's Day". At the early times it was a common activity to have the meeting of groups of mothers. 1. A stem having many twigs 2. Construction paper of green color 3. Crayons and markers 4. Scissors 5. Thread 6. Punch 7. Paper cup 8. A lump of clay 9. Glue stick 10. Balloons 1. Firstly take the paper cup and put the lump of clay in the base of this cup. She maketh a past of Apricocks (which is both very beautiful and clear, and tasteth most quick of the fruit) thus.Take six pound of pared and sliced Apricocks, put them in a high pot, which stop close, and set it in a kettle of boiling water, till you perceive the flesh is all become a uniform pulp; then put it out into your preserving pan or possenet, and boil it gently till it be grown thick, stirring it carefully all the while.Then put two pound of pure Sugar to it, and mingle it well, and let it boil gently, till you see the matter come to such a thickness and solidity, that it will not stick to a plate.Then make it up into what form you will. Mothers are the people who influence our lives right from our birth. As we grow up, we learn lot many things
from them. In the process of bringing us up they enable us to differentiate between good and bad. Sometimes they do it intentionally and sometimes indirectly and unknowingly. As we spend a major part of our lives with these sweet moms, we memorize each and every moment spent in their company. Although the dates and months of celebrating this day might differ from country to country, still the
occasion holds equally great significance for each one. In the United States, Mother's Day is celebrated in the second week of May. The Mother's Day 2009 will be celebrated on May 10th in the United States. The United Kingdom will celebrate '' or on 22nd March 2009.