So it a great tool for research.
What makes so unique is that this map-based
service is integrated throughout the entire web
site, rather than having a separate, standalone mapping facility. Whenever the map button on
a web page is displayed, it can be clicked to locate that physical site or a group of
related sites on an
interactive County Map. i>The
new Web Site is a big part of the direction of our
future; it illustrates the County commitment to . What you see on our web site is just a
start to our move to eGovernment. Our ultimate goal is to provide a broad range of
on-line services, 24 hours a day, regardless if our offices are open or closed,concluded
Steinhaus. For more information about the County Web Site contact the Commissioner at the Dutchess County Office of Computer Information Services (OCIS) at 486-2450,
Monday Friday, 9:00 am 5:00 pm.  New Look and Feel Reorganization by Area and ServiceService Area A Start to ServiceseGovernmenteGovernment Hmmmmmm, what to do, what to do... Have we got the solution for you! It's called the Hudson Valley! And guess what!?! You're already there! Point your compass to the
North and drive, walk, bike, jog, take the train, take the bus or even take the water taxi. In minutes you will leave the congestion and traffic behind and find
yourself nestled in the bosom of the most beautiful river valley in the world, the Hudson River Valley. Possibly the best kept secret about New York City! What's the
secret? Well, here's the thing, New York City is the bottom reach of this most magnificent of
valleys. From NYC you can leave in only three directions: East out onto Long Island, West
into New Jersey or, (drum roll please....)
north into the Hudson Valley. The
"Official" Valley starts at
the border of the Bronx and includes the counties to the north of Westchester, Rockland,
Putnam, Orange, Dutchess, Ulster, Columbia, Greene, Albany and Rensselaer. The Valley stretches
for roughly 120 miles passing through imposing river gorges and rolling hills. * Budget as of
February 2008; other statistical information as of December 31, 2007. The MTA network links
the diverse parts of New York, giving the region efficient, reasonably priced, environmentally sound travel alternatives to gridlocked streets and highways. While nearly 85 percent of the nation's workers need automobiles to get to their jobs, four of every five rush-hour commuters to New York City's
central business district avoid traffic congestion by taking transit service  most of it
operated by the MTA. MTA
customers travel on America's largest bus fleet and on more subway and rail cars than all
the rest of the country's
subways and commuter railroads combined. A
Memorable Vacation Come and See! Using the Internet to book a room for your traveling or
vacations has become one of the biggest uses of the Internet. Be sure to visit our new feature. You can
find a room in your destination town... or look for one up to 30 miles away. In all 50
states. It's easy. It's secure. ! Book a Room Book a Room Click here for the NY Visitors
Network lodging
members from across the state.
SEARCH Searching our site is as easy as ABC. where you will be able to locate things by
topic, geography, category, etc. It really is easy! Visit our Search Page NY REAL ESTATE
Looking to move to or relocate within NY? Try our Real Estate pages by visiting . You'll find
links to realtors, organized by county of course. NY Real Estate Visit Columbia County, NY
You'll marvel at the mansion's
paintings, period furnishings and Oriental art
objects. Mills Mansion Eleven miles into your trip, you'll arrive at Rhinebeck. Stop at
Beekman Arms, the oldest
continuously operating hotel in
the United States, at the corner of Route 9 and Market Street. Many places may claim it, but
yes, George Washington did sleep here. On-board train fares are subject to a stiff surcharge, so buy your tickets at the vending machines located on the platform. On
trains departing from Grand Central Terminal in Manhattan, get a seat on the left side of the
train. Opposite and you will be treated to great views of the sheer cliffs of the Palisades
and between and you will get a
glimpse of Bannerman Castle on
an island offshore.Metro-North Railroad - Hudson line
[6] Yonkers Hastings-on-Hudson Cold Spring
Beacon The board also has six rotating non-voting seats, three held by representatives of
the Permanent Citizens Advisory Committee (PCAC), which serves as a voice for users of MTA transit and
commuter facilities, and three held by representatives of organized labor. All Board members
are confirmed by the New York State Senate.
New York City Transit .See New York City Transit
below, or go to of the system, or
statistics maps home page When
the subway opened in 1904, it launched an unprecedented era of growth and prosperity for the
newly unified New York City. One hundred years later, the city's reliance on its
underground rapid transit system is greater
than ever. Friday, 18 April
2008 Experience Dutchess County, the perfect destination! Nestled in the heart of the Hudson
River Valley region,
Dutchess County
offers 800 square miles of history, the arts,
recreation, superb fare, scenic
vistas, festivals and great relaxation. is a
county located in the U.S. state of New York, in the state's Mid-Hudson Region of the Hudson Valley. As
of the 2000 census, the
population was 280,150. However, recent population estimates completed by the United States Census
Bureau for the 12-month period ending July 1,
2007 are at 292,706 residents.Dutchess County 517 individual businesses assisted
(approximately 25% received
more than one type of assistance, i.e., financial, counseling, Empire Zone) 280 jobs
added by businesses we have worked with (net of jobs
created and deleted including business attraction, business expansion, and
Poughkeepsie/Dutchess Empire Zone) 13,863 employees are represented by businesses DCEDC
worked with in 2007 (excluding
IBM) $200 million
invested by small businesses (employment less than 500). $400 million invested by large
businesses (employment over 500) $1.3 million in low-cost loans secured for two industrial
expansions $260,000 in grants secured for local businesses , a division of DCEDC, established
outstanding benchmarks during 2007. These included:Dutchess County Tourism 115 tourism
businesses were
assisted 80,000 Travel Guides were distributed to assist visitors to Dutchess County from
across the state and around the world 666,600
visitors logged on to the tourism website (www.dutchesstourism.com) during 2007—a record
number  Overlook Lodge, a modern hotel obscured from sight by the trees but nestled above
Hessian Lake, is also available for overnight stays. Portions of this article and some of
the images are taken from the 1997 New York State Scenic Byways Brochure. To receive a
copy for yourself, contact any tourist office near you, any of the county tourist offices in
NYS, or the travel agent nearest you. Images taken from the NYS State Brochure are
copyrighted by their respective owners, (#1 & #4 by Empire State Development, #5 © George
Valkai, all others © Hudson Valley Network,
Inc.). 1998-2004 by Hudson Valley
Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved. Copyright © To review HV/Net's Privacy Statement, To
review HV/Net's General Liability Statement, Click Here PO Box 67 Greenwood Lake, NY
10925 845.926.3429 - voice 845.926.5665 - faxHudson Valley Network, Inc.   www.hvnet.com  
The program brings residents of New York City to Dutchess County for a day to visit farms and
rural communities
(link).Dutchess County Farm Fresh
Agritourism program Bed tax
revenue to Dutchess County brought in an estimated $2 million DCEDC exists to attract,
retain, and expand for-profit and not-for-profit
business in Dutchess County. We look forward to continuing this critically important work
for many, many decades into the future. For Help with the Cost of Attending a Trade Show,
Act Now DCEDC is currently accepting applications for the 2008 Trade Show Assistance Program.
Funds for the program are made available
through the generosity of the Dutchess County Industrial Development Agency (DCIDA). The
program reimburses qualified manufacturing
companies for up to 50% of the
direct costs associated with
participating in an industry trade
show of their choice. The maximum grant award is $4,000 per company or affiliate per year
for a domestic trade show and $5,000 for an international trade show.  Eligible costs
include booth and freight costs, airfare, lodging, meals, and marketing related to
business development at the show. Contact Melissa Mackey at 845.463.5403 or for more
information or to obtain an application. melissa@dcedc.com Applause for Dutchess County For a
listing of accolades
received during 2007 by Dutchess County from sources including Milken Institute, U.S.
Department of Labor, and Forbes magazine—see  “The Accolades – Dutchess County, New York” in
the section.                                                                                                     restaurant, food, dutchess county, hudson valley, quality, restaurant, value,rhinebeck, great service, best reuben around, good drinks, historic rhinebeck, dutchess county fair, bob kirwood,
fosters, restaurant, food, dutchess county,
hudson valley, quality, restaurant, value, rhinebeck, great service, best reuben around, good
drinks, historic rhinebeck, dutchess county fair, bob kirwood, fosters,  restaurant, food,
dutchess county, hudson valley,
quality, restaurant, value, rhinebeck, great service, best reuben around, good drinks, historic
rhinebeck, dutchess county
fair, bob kirwood, foster's coach house tavern, old
rhinebeck aerodrome, new york,
restaurant, food, dutchess county, hudson valley, quality, restaurant, value,rhinebeck, great
service, best reuben around, good drinks, historic rhinebeck, dutchess county fair, bob kirwood, fosters, restaurant, food, dutchess county, hudson valley, quality,
restaurant, value, rhinebeck, great service, best reuben around, good drinks, historic
rhinebeck, dutchess county fair, bob kirwood, fosters,  restaurant, food, dutchess county, hudson valley, quality, restaurant, value, rhinebeck, great service, best
reuben around, good drinks, historic rhinebeck, dutchess county fair, bob kirwood,
foster's coach house tavern,
old rhinebeck aerodrome, new york, restaurant, food, dutchess county, hudson valley, quality, restaurant, value,rhinebeck, great service, best reuben around, good
drinks, historic rhinebeck, dutchess county fair, bob kirwood, fosters, restaurant, food,
dutchess county, hudson valley, quality, restaurant, value, rhinebeck, great service, best
reuben around, good drinks,
historic rhinebeck, dutchess
county fair, bob kirwood, fosters, restaurant, food, dutchess county, hudson valley, quality, restaurant, value, rhinebeck, great service, best reuben around, good drinks, historic rhinebeck, dutchess county fair, bob kirwood, foster's coach house tavern, old rhinebeck aerodrome, new york The county seat
is Poughkeepsie. The county was named in honor
of Mary of Modena, Duchess of
York, second wife of the future
King James II. History Prior to
the Anglo-Dutch incursion, what is today Dutchess County was a leading center for the
Wappani. They had
their council-fire at Fishkill Hook and also held gatherings along the Danskammer. In
1683, the Province of New York established
its first twelve counties, with Dutchess
County being one of them. Its boundaries at
that time included the
present Putnam County, and a small portion of the present Columbia County (the towns of
Clermont and Germantown). Until
1713, Dutchess was
administered by Ulster
County. In 1812, Putnam County was detached from Dutchess. (From wikipedia, the free
encyclopedia) Bear
Mountain welcomes more
visitors every year than
Yellowstone National Park. It's perfect for families, offering hiking trails, boating and
picnicking, as well as a . Zoo and a
Trailside Museum Bear Mountain State Park is open 365 days a year from 8am to dusk. A skating
rink is open from late October to March and the pool is open from Memorial Day to Labor Day.
The park office can
be reached at (914)786-2701. Built in 1915, the Bear Mountain Inn offers comfortable
lodging in a nature-filled setting. Tour Albany, New York State's capital city, or discover
the beginnings of the Industrial Revolution in Troy.
Enjoy antiquing in Hudson, savor
the artistry of Frederic Church at Olana and the treasured handcrafts of the Shakers. Travel
back roads and byways, from
city sights to country pleasures. From the mansions of a bygone era, to the splendor of the
Shawangunk & Catskill Mountains, in the
mid-Valley you will find a rich diversity of things to do. Tour great estates and gardens,
explore museums and wineries, pick apples and take scenic hikes. Discover quaint villages,
scenic beauty and tales of the American Revolution in the beautiful Hudson Highlands, home to
West Point. Re-trace the ride of the Headless Horseman, visit heritage sites and great
art museums, take a river cruise and enjoy
incomparable Main Street shopping.   We hope you enjoy your visit to New York's Hudson
River Valley where youy'll find extraordinary
scenic beauty and the highest concentration of historic attractions anywhere in America.
Welcome!   James Crawford, Canajoharie LibraryThe Marketing of the Beech-Nut Packing Company
Edward Howe, Siena CollegeThe
Hudson-Mohawk Region
Industrializes Susan Ingalls Lewis, SUNY New Paltz Women in the Marketplace: Albany 1830-1885
Comment: Sean Kelley, Hartwick College FRIDAY BREAK 10:30-11:00 EXHIBITIONS 8:00-4:00
OLIN 201-202 Olin 203Friday
11:00 Kyle T. Bulthuis, UC Davis Becoming New Yorkers, Becoming Americans: Three New York City Churches I Karen Jaw, Columbia University nter-ethnic and Inter-racial
Relations in NYC Comment: Joyce
Goodfriend, University of Denver Olin
204Friday 11:00 Salvatore J. LaGumina, Nassau Comm. College New York Political Dynasties: The
Italian American Experience Elisabeth Israels Perry, Saint Louis University New York Women
Support for Proportional Representation Comment: Lisa Keller, SUNY Purchase Olin
205Friday 11:00 Mary A.
DeMarco, Greenfield Town
Historian Transience Going Back Home: A Unique Public Program Comment: Bill McDermott,
Clinton Town Historian FRIDAY
LUNCH 12:30-1:30 KLINE COMMONS Olin 203Friday 1:30 Coercive Americanism: World War I, the Red
Scare, and Ethnic Politics in New York City Christopher Sterba, Independent Scholar
Rethinking the Ethnic
Politics of World War I Telecommunications
and broadband access Municipal advocacy For more
information about DCEDC, use the navigation
bar to access About DCEDC.
For information about major
area employers, sales tax, workforce, per-capita
income and
unemployment rate, population, mileage to major cities, and more, use the navigation bar to
access Dutchess County Data. In the Dutchess County Spotlight Check out the 2008 DCEDC
Business Excellence Awards Invitation  Preview the 2008 DCEDC Business Excellence Awards
invitation . The shown on this
website is for information only. We are
accepting by mail only.
invitation RSVPs This is the
go-to event for
Dutchess County’s business community. DCT is a division of the Dutchess County Economic Development
Corporation and is funded by the County of Dutchess. Dutchess County Tourism is dedicated
to bringing tourism dollars to area
businesses by promoting the region across the country and around the world. It continues to
develop new programs to keep Dutchess County in the forefront of visitor destinations,
helping to make tourism a leading industry in the
county. For more information, visit www.DutchessTourism.com Posted Friday, January 9,
2009 Campus News There are a couple of
places on the NY State Thruway with brochures in racks, there are a scattering of local
brochure racks around, but nowhere centralized. Now getting lots of brochures couldn't be
simpler. We have a growing
collection of attractions and
businesses that actually want to get their
brochures into your hands! Just select what you want from what is currently available below
and get them delivered to you via the US
Post Office. It's
simple and fast. Once you've made your selections from all that is available, just provide your mailing information and "Check Out". We will instantly communicate
with each business letting them
know to get their brochure in the
mail to you ASAP! If you don't find something that you really want, alas all we can suggest
is that you contact them directly. Get the latest agricultural & culinary tourism news.
Coming Soon! Check back this summer to request our new agri-tourism brochure. Send an agriculture-themed . e-greeting Access other local agricultural & culinary
resources below: Dutchess County Cornell Cooperative Extension,     http://counties.cce.cornell.edu/dutchess Hudson Valley Fresh, www.hudsonvalleyfresh.com Dutchess
County Wine Trail, www.dutchesswinetrail.com
The Culinary Institute of America, www.ciachef.edu About Us Take a scenic drive up to Mead
Orchards () at 15 Scism Road in Tivoli, near Bard College. It’s a family-run, 180-acre fruit
orchard and vegetable farm around since 1916. They grow nearly 40 varieties of apples, as well as peaches, pears, plums, cherries, strawberries and other berries.
 You also can choose from their wide variety of delicious greens, summer vegetables,
winter squashes, pumpkins and decorative gourds.     www.meadorchards.com Heading south
toward Red Hook, stop for a leisurely afternoon respite at Gigi Market (), followed by a wine
tasting and tour at Alison Wines & Vineyard (), another stop along the Dutchess Wine
Trail.  Both are located on picturesque Pitcher Lane adjacent to Greig Farm (), where you’ll
have another opportunity to pick-your-own fruits, vegetables and flowers amid the scenic
rural landscape.  www.gigitrattoria.com
www.alisonwines.com
www.greigfarm.com Wind down the day in nearby Rhinebeck, home to many shops, eateries and
overnight accommodations.  Before heading home the following day, take the time to check the Dutchess County Fairgrounds () event schedule, or consider a stop at
Clinton Vineyards ().  Set against a backdrop of trellised vines and beautiful rolling hills,
this member of the Dutchess Wine
Trail is located at 450 Schultzville Road in Clinton Corners. www.dutchessfair.com
www.clintonvineyards.com And it should come as no surprise that there's a CIA in
restaurant-rich New York City, tooa
href="http://www.ciachef.edu/enthusiasts/programs/astor/">The Culinary Institute of America
at Astor Center. Hyde Park,
New York CIA at
Greystone in St. Helena, California CIA, San Antonio campus in Texas Each CIA location
offers you a different mix of culinary
education options, from and to courses for food and . But all four share one essential
ingredientur
world-famous commitment to excellence. degree certificate programs professionals enthusiasts Get
directions to our or campus and
come visit us. Take a
campus tour, or dine in one of the award-winning CIA restaurants. This service can be used
to locate an array of sites, physical features and boundaries throughout the County, such as
government offices, school districts, political boundaries, libraries, hospitals, enior
Friendship Centers,nursing homes, historic
sites and museums, recreation areas, and much more. After identifying a location, the map
displays a related web site or web page that
gives the visitor
further information.   Today is: Don't miss the January Contact Breakfast featuring Kent
Gardner and his economic forecast for 2009 for Wednesdasy January 21st at 7:30 am at the Poughkeepsie Grand Hotel. This event is generously sponsored by The Chazen
Companies. Smart Card Being a member of the
Dutchess County Regional Chamber of Commerce comes with many benefits and one of them is
discounts on other membersproducts and services. Simply carry your SmartCard, show it at
these businesses and receive the discount
mentioned below. That it!
What a great way to save money, meet other Chamber
businesses and hink local first!Don have your
SmartCard or need a new one? Call
845-454-1700 ext. 1000 and let us know. Web visitors can also join a western New York discussion group at this site or visit the on-line store to purchase books and
photographs.The
Buffalonian Central New York Library Resources Council 6493 Ridings Road Syracuse, NY 13206
315/446-5446 Fax 315/446-5590
familiarly known as CLRC, was formed in 1967 as one of nine Reference and Research Library
Resources councils ("3Rs") in New
York State.     This official I Love NY
website represents a unique private-public partnership between Hudson Valley Network, Inc.,
The Gold Standard and Hudson Valley Tourism, in close collaboration with and support from the
regional tourism industry.
Copyright © 2008 by
Hudson Valley Network, Inc., all rights reserved.
Please review HV/Net's "" to understand the uses we make of the information that we gather here
and on our other Internet sites. For more information
or to make suggestions on how we can improve this service to you please do not hesitate to let
us know via the "Contact Us" page
and tell us your ideas and
suggestions, good experiences and bad ones too.
Please join us for a ribbon-cutting ceremony on Tuesday, January 27th at noon.  Light
refreshments will be provided.
Individuals with disabilities requiring accommodations at Vassar should contact the Office of
Campus Activities at (845) 437-5370. Directions to the Vassar campus are available at .
www.vassar.edu/directions Vassar College is a
highly selective,
coeducational, independent, residential
liberal arts college founded in 1861. News Ribbon-cutting on January 27 for Dutchess County
Tourism Information Center in the Main Building of
Vassar College             POUGHKEEPSIE, NY — Dutchess County Tourism and Vassar College are
pleased to announce the opening of an official Dutchess County Tourism Information Center
in the historic Main Building of Vassar College. The Tourist Information Center will play a
valuable role in the community,
helping to create awareness about the county’s many tourism assets for both students and
their families, the thousands
of annual visitors to Vassar’s beautiful campus, as well as the college's more than 1,000
employees. The brochure racks
are full of literature on
Dutchess County lodging, arts, historic sites,
outdoor spaces, and the
center offers a
computer terminal linking visitors
to tourism information. There's also information about Vassar's many public facilities and
offerings such as the Frances
Lehman Loeb Art Center, the music department's year-round concert series, and the campus
itself, a 1,000-acre designated arboretum
that's home to more than two hundred species of trees, two buildings on the National Register
of Historic Places, and an array of
architectural designs. September 12th & 13th, 2009 Dutchess County Fairgrounds -
Rhinebeck, NY Marketing Opportunities Advertise With Us Reach thousands of adults in the Hudson
Valley by advertising in our
Wine Fest Taster's Guide. The
Hudson Valley Wine & Food Fest is held in one of America's oldest wine growing regions.
With hundreds of wines from the Finger Lakes to Long Island and beyond, as well as 100+
related vendors, the event will draw over
20,000 visitors from throughout the Hudson Valley, Long Island, Connecticut, Massachusetts
and NYC. In addition, the Taster's Guide
will be distributed to more than 40,000
subscribers to the Poughkeepsie Journal right before the Labor Day weekend Take advantage of: Qualified Readers - over 60,000 wine & food enthusiasts from the North East Region will pick up and save the Taster's Guide A Regional Tradition - Heading into it's 8th year the Hudson Valley Wine & Food Fest has
drawn consistently greater attendance each year Plenty of Publicity - The event is advertised
nationally in Gourmet Magazine, as well as in local papers, regional magazines, tourist sites,
radio and cable television Diverse Vendors - wine
seminars, gourmet food and craft vendors,
cooking demonstrations, wineries, and music from local performers Family Friendly Event- Bouncy
Houses, Kids Crafts Tourist
Attraction - The natural beauty of Dutchess County in Autumn is a major tourist
attraction For more information on
advertising in the Hudson Valley
Wine & Food Fest Taster's
Guide, . Dr. J.A.
Jacobs, Universiteit van
Amsterdam In August 1635, New Netherland director Wouter van Twiller and his councilors wrote a letter to their superiors in Holland. The previously unknown letter
covers many points from the early
history of New Netherland and enables us to come to a different appraisal of van Twiller as
director. This event is made
possible by the New York
Council for the Humanities and the
National Endowment for the Humanities.A
Troubled Man: Wouter van
Twiller and New Netherland in 1635 SATURDAY,JUNE 7 REGISTRATION 8:00-10:30 OLIN 107
EXHIBITIONS 9:00-12:00 OLIN 201-202 Olin 203Saturday 8:45 By taking the scenic, forested
Palisades Interstate
Parkway, your trip can be as pleasurable as reaching your destination. Located at the
intersection of the
Palisades Parkway and Route 9W, Bear Mountain State Park is a marvel of natural beauty.
You'll find miles and
miles of hiking trails, an inn
with all the comforts of home, and, of course, magnificent scenic vistas. Their clients
include museums, historical societies, historic districts, parks and gardens, filmmakers,
public agencies, businesses, citizens’ groups, television stations, and others involved in
interpreting history. One of
their aims is to find the forgotten voices in the American past, and to show that life in
the most ordinary circumstances
and the most local places can be connected
to the larger stories
of the American people.American
History Workshop
E-mail: website@buffalonet.org is a not-for-profit internet site dedicated to preserving
Buffalo and Western New Yorks heritage.
Individuals who want to contribute material or take on design responsibilities for an area of
this site are encouraged to e-mail
the site. Links at this growing site include: ., several sites devoted to the citys history,
History of Brewing in Buffalo,
Buffalos Subway System, Genesee & Wyoming County New York Off-Beat History, and Replicas of
Vintage Railroad and
Automotive Equipment.BuffaloNet Buffalo Folklore Etc The Buffalonian Steve R. Powell,
Editor and Publisher is a news and
multimedia on-line historical
archive for western New York and the Niagara region.
 Area 3   Canine Frisbee
Demonstrations (Saturday)     Dutchess
County Sheriff’s K-9
Demonstrations (Saturday )     Punkin Chuckin (Sunday) Area 7   Sheep Dog Trials, sanctioned
by NE Border Collie Association Area 13   Children’s Bouncey Slide     Two by Two Petting Zoo
    Home Grown String Band
(Saturday)     Northern Dutchess Fiddle
Contest (Sunday) Area 14   Wheelchair,
strollers, and scooter
rentals     Sponsored by Dutchess County Sheep And Wool Growers The new site not only focuses
on County Government services, but is also designed as a ortalto other web sites of interest
to the public, including local Municipalities, Businesses, Schools, Community,
Tourism/Recreation, Elected Officials, and State/Federal Government. In announcing the new
web site, the County
Executive stated, i>I excited about Dutchess County Online and its importance to the
County and our residents. This is
a huge step forward for us - as
it will be an integral part
of our effort to improve and expand Internet-based services to our citizens, businesses and
local governments.nbsp; Mr.
Steinhaus added, i>This
effort is particularly satisfying because it was designed and developed entirely by County
Staff.The web site
design and development was done by our Office of
Computer Information Services (OCIS) with assistance from our Planning Department. has more
than 1500 pages of useful services and many
innovative features such as , the web site new Interactive mapping facility. Below is an
overview of some of the enhancements that the County
has made to its web site.Dutchess County Online www.dutchessny.gov FIND AN EVENTS
CALENDAR FOR NEW YORK (Find on-line before you get there!)things-to-do I Love NY -
State-wide events Calendar New
York City New York City Visitors Bureau - Local-Calendar Canandaigua | | | | | Home
Find-an-Inn Legal and Trademark Notices Contact Information Last Minute Specials Innkeeper Sign
up Copyright 2005- B&B
Getaways - Room-availability
searches powered by B&B Getaways www.room-availability.com Search Engine Key Word Text: Are you looking
travel information or a Bed & Breakfast, Inn or B&B in New York City, Hudson Valley,
Canandaigua, Cooperstown, Otsego,
Dutchess County, Hyde Park, Rhinebeck, Finger Lakes, Ithaca,Tompkins County, Lake Placid,
Essex County, Saratoga Springs, Skaneateles, Kingston, New Paltz, Ulster County, Woodstock,
NY or need to find a B&B to stay at? Want to search for a B&B or find a Bed and Breakfast by
driving distance without needing to know the region or which towns are near New York City,
Hudson Valley, Canandaigua, Cooperstown, Otsego, Dutchess County, Hyde Park, Rhinebeck,
Finger Lakes, Ithaca,Tompkins County, Lake Placid, Essex County, Saratoga Springs, Skaneateles,
Kingston, New Paltz,
Ulster County, Woodstock, NY? You'll find all
these resource and more at B&B Getaways (bbgetaways.com) the most comprehensive B&B Directory
on the Internet. bed and
breakfast, tourism,
lodging, inns, innkeeping, associations, accommodations, travel, B&B Getaways, Bed and
Breakfast Getaways, online B&B directory, Bed & Breakfasts, innkeeping, innkeepers, bed and breakfasts, b & b, bnb, inns, lodging, travel, Country Inn, hotel,
romantic getaway, weekend getaway, romantic
weekend getaway, vacation getaway, romance,
accommodations, Bed &
Breakfasts, B&B, romantic, B&B, B&B's, B & B, B and B, B and B's, bed & breakfast, bed
and breakfast, bed & breakfast, bed and breakfasts, inn, inns, innkeeper, innkeeping,
vacation, vacations, travel,
traveling, tour, tourist, New York City,
Hudson Valley, Canandaigua, Cooperstown, Otsego, Dutchess County, Hyde Park, Rhinebeck, Finger
Lakes, Ithaca,Tompkins County, Lake Placid, Essex County, Saratoga Springs, Skaneateles,
Kingston, New Paltz, Ulster
County, Woodstock, NY" "It's the best culinary school in the world." Paul Bocuse, world-renowned
French chef At our campus in Hyde Park, New
York, we don't just have master chefs; we
have the most Certified Master Chefs of any culinary college on our . We don't just have
alumni; we have a , many of them leaders in the food industry. We don't just offer hands-on experience;
.That's The Culinary
Institute of America outstanding faculty
network of more than 37,000 graduates students spend over 1,300 hours in the kitchen or
bakeshop, more than at almost any other culinary school A CIA bachelor's or associate
degree in or is an unmatched credential that will open doors to an endless number of exciting
career opportunities for you. culinary arts baking and pastry arts It's not just the fact
that Paul Bocusene of
the world's most respected chefss saying it. The foodservice and hospitality industry has known
it for a long time now: The Culinary
Institute of America is the world's premier culinary college. As a true culinary college, the
depths of its resources and the
strengths of its degree programs make the CIA so much more than a cooking school. Get the you need to get started today. college admissions information The Convenience of Multiple Locations Today, NYC Transit's buses run in all five boroughs, on more than 200 local and 30 express routes. They account for
80 percent of the city's surface mass transportation. NYC Transit also administers
paratransit service throughout New York City
to provide transportation options for people with disabilities. MetroCard, the MTA's automated
fare collection medium, is accepted on all New York City Transit subway stations and on buses.
It can also be used on Long Island Bus, MTA Bus, and on the PATH system (operated by the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey), a subway
linking New York and New
Jersey. Among NYC Transit's capital projects are additional new subway cars and a
state-of-the-art
communication-based signal system to replace mechanical signals dating to 1904. * Subway in
four boroughs, buses and paratransit in five boroughs, plus the MTA Staten Island Railway.New
York City Transitat a Glance   EVENTS BY BUILDINGS, TENTS, & AREAS Building A   Vendors
Building B   Workshops     Book Signing by Authors (Sunday) Building C   Children’s
Activities     “Mad Science” presents “Open an Oyster”     Corn Husk Doll Making with Donna
Coan     Party Carnival – Children’s Entertainment     Girl Scouts – Hands-On Crafts
    Trading Post
Products     Balloon Sculpturing     Hay
Maze     Putt, Putt Golf     Sheep Toss     Wood Carvers     Angora Rabbit Demonstrations
Building D   Halloween Haunted House Building E   ATM Machine     Specialty Foods
    Wineries & Wine Tasting     American Cheese Society     Demonstrations     Competitions     Sheep to Shawl Competition (Sunday)     Make It With Wool Competition
(Saturday) Building 8   Festival Collectibles & Souvenirs Building 10   ASI Micron
Testing     ASI 101 and 202 Classes with Bob
Padula Building 21   Vendors Building 22   Vendors (2 Floors) Building 24   4H Clubs –
Food & Refreshments     Wool Fleece Sale Building 26   Vendors Building 27   Llamas and
Alpacas Building 28   Sheep Breed Displays
Building 29   Vendors
Building 30   Vendors Building 31   Vendors Building 33   Festival Office Building 34   Bred Ewe Auction (Saturday)     Canine Frisbee Demonstrations (Sunday)
    Dutchess County Sheriff’s
K-9 Demonstrations (Sunday)
Building 35   Vendors Building 36   Vendors Building 37   Sheep Penning and Sheep Shows
    Featured Breed – Romney – Talks and Demonstrations Building 38   Goat Penning and Goat
Shows Building 38A  Goat Buck Penning Adjoining the restaurant is the historic Beekman 1766
Tavern. After leaving Rhinebeck, you'll experience miles of lush Hudson Valley countryside.
Following our trail, you may wish to visit the Old Rhinebeck Aerodrome, where you can
thrill to the pioneering days of
aviation. Watch vintage bi-planes perform aerial acrobatics and even engage in mock dogfights
with other planes. You can even fly over the countryside in a vintage bi-plane. After you've
resumed your road tour, you may wish to stop at the Greig Farm in Red Hook, the most northern
portion of our tour, for apples, cheeses, pies
and other
refreshments to send you on your way back to Hyde Park. If you're up to it, you may even pick
your own apples. A Tour Along the Taconic State Parkway As the Hudson River continues northward
toward Albany, its landscape and shoreline become more subdued with gentle rolling hills
dotted with farmsteads bordered by the picturesque Catskill Mountains in the West and the
Taconic Mountains in the
East. The Hudson River
Valley, renowned for its natural beauty and scenic resources, has lured artists, architects
and writers to its shores. It is the birthplace of the , the largest artistic movement in the
United States, as well as home
to over 200 national
historic sites, ranging from grand mansions
of "" to the rustic homesteads of early colonial settlers.Hudson River School of Painting
Millionaires Row The Hudson River Valley has
served and continues to serve as a major transportation route for commerce and travel
connecting the East Coast to the Midwest. The area's rich agricultural heritage
flourishes on both sides of the Hudson
River, producing outstanding , ,
dairy products and other crops. The Hudson River Valley hosts a long tradition as a tourist
destination, beginning in the mid-1800s as a retreat for wealthy industrialists and serving
as the gateway to the Catskill Mountains and resorts. It now offers a variety of recreational opportunities year round for visitors and residents alike. The County
has more services planned; currently under development is a County Parks Reservation System
that will be available early in 2004. - In an effort to provide a better understanding of the County
services and missions, all County departments
are now represented on the web site. In 2004, work will begin to expand online services for
departments that directly service the public. - It important for Government to keep citizens
informed. One of our primary goals for the web site is do just that. The County has taken its
schedules of events and news releases from
various departments and combined them into
one area for easy
access. - Dutchess County has an abundance of places to go and sites to see. Now you can
find them at the touch of a
button. A focus of the web site is to promote our historic sites, museums, cultural arts and
recreational facilities. There is
an entire section
devoted to Tourism/Recreation
as well as a Photo Gallery that highlights
area attractions and
our communities. Of
course there are links to the Dutchess Tourism web site that provides details about a
broad range of Tourist activities.
                  Guides Attractions
Itineraries Reserve a Room Deals Books Travel
Planner elcome to the Hudson River Valley,
New York's American Masterpiece!
Trace George Washington's footsteps here,
explore great mansions and gardens, discover the roots of American folklore, art and
architecture. Designated by
Congress a National Heritage area, the
Valley welcomes you in every season with the snows of winter, the soft blooms of spring,
rich summer harvests and the brilliant colors of fall. For your convenience, we have divided
our very linear valley into three regions. Spend a day or more traveling this roadway and
enjoy the beauty of
the region. Easily accessible from New York City, the Taconic Parkway provides a gateway to
the country, connecting Westchester, Putnam, Dutchess and Columbia counties. In Columbia
County, Taghkanic State Park is located off the Taconic State Parkway between Routes 199
and 82. Taghkanic State Park offers
swimming, camping, cottage rentals, picnic areas, boat rentals, two bathing beaches and
hiking trails.
Traveling further north on the Parkway,
take the Hillsdale
exit (Route 23) and, heading toward Hillsdale,
turn right (about three miles) onto County
Route 11A. This National Beauty Award Highway offers a pleasurable drive through scenic
vistas. The results include significant improvements in performance, higher levels of
efficiency, and vastly improved reliability, including new highs in Mean Distance Between
Failures (the distance rail cars and buses travel
between breakdowns), on-time service, ridership, and wait times at bridge and tunnel toll
plazas. The MTA is
continuing its rebuilding and improvement efforts with its 2005-2009 Capital Program and will move forward on the first substantial expansion of the network in 60 years, including Long Island Rail Road access to Grand Central, the uptown segment of a full-length Second Avenue subway, the extension of the
number 7 line west from Times Square to the Javits Center, and a direct link from Kennedy
Airport to downtown Manhattan. A
public-benefit corporation
chartered by the New York State Legislature in 1965, the MTA is governed by a 17-member
Board. Members are nominated by the Governor, with four recommended by New York City's
mayor and one each by the county executives
of Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Dutchess, Orange, Rockland, and Putnam counties. Architecture as Document, Documents as Architecture Shirley W. Dunn, Independent
Scholar Influences on New York
Early Dutch
Architecture Walter R .
Wheeler, Hartgen Archaeological Associates
The Introduction of the Gambrel Roof Neil Larson, Neil Larson and Associates Wealth,
Class and Architecture in Ulster County Stone Houses Comment: Paul Malo, Syracuse
University (emeritus) Olin 205Friday 1:30 State-Owned Materials for Local Historians Jim
Folts, New York State Archives Vicki Weiss,
New York State Library The
surveying and granting of public lands; the development of canals, railroads, highways, and public utilities; the evolution of modern school districts; and local
contributions to the nation wars are all
documented in the Archivesholdings. Folts will provide an overview of records containing
information about localities,
give examples, and discuss access tools for
learning more about the
Archivesholdings. Weiss will explain the
usefulness of Library
holdings, including published series with
local data, and the rich
collection of manuscripts, maps, and newspapers covering all of New York State. Led by Cynthia
Owen Philip Gather on Olin steps
at 3:30 The hamlet of
Rhinebeck has been a river, road, and rail transportation hub throughout its history. It was
purchased by five Dutchmen in 1688 from the Lenape Indians. Some of their descendants still live
there. The oldest house dates from 1701, but most were built with the railroad (1851) or in
the 1880s. (For a noteworthy
side trip, follow signs out of the village to the
Shaker Museum, Route 66 to County Route 13 to
Shaker Museum Road.) Heading back on Route
295 in Chatham, turn right at the light on to Route
203 and continue to Valatie,
home of the nation's first Santa
Claus Club. Heading out of Valatie, turn left onto Route 9 and enjoy the historic village of Kinderhook. This village is home to the Columbia County Museum and the
James Vanderpoel House.
Sports and Fitness Welcome to the Dutchess County,
New York website, your community on the internet. Here you will find valuable information
about Dutchess County, New York, including
coupons, restaurants, shopping, hotels, local
businesses, transportation, real estate,
public services, dining, arts and
entertainment, spas, salons, schools, sports, automotive, banking, shops, healthcare,
relocation, travel,
tourism, and vacations in
Dutchess County, Amenia, Arlington, Beacon, Beekman,
Brinckerhoff, Clinton, Crown Heights, Dover Plains, Dover, East Fishkill, Fairview, Fishkill,
Haviland, Hillside Lake, Rock City, Hopewell Junction, Hyde Park, La Grange, Milan, Millbrook,
Millerton, Myers Corner, North East, Pawling, Pine Plains, Pleasant Valley, Poughkeepsie, Red
Hook, Red Oaks Mill, Rhinebeck, Spackenkill, Staatsburg, Stanford, Tivoli, Union Vale,
Wappinger, Wappingers Falls and Washington.
She also writes poems to go with many of the
photos.  The photographs can enhance your home or office, be a special gift for various
occasions or be a
remembrance of a special place. Linda has been listed in the Art in America Guide.  She has
done fine art and craft  shows throughout New York, Vermont , Massachusetts, and
Connecticut.  She has
exhibited at Barnes and Noble in Poughkeepsie, NY,  the Brass Anchor Restaurant in
Poughkeepsie, NY, the Cunneen Hackett Cultural Center in Poughkeepsie, NY, the Howland Cultural Center in Beacon, NY, the Highland Cultural Center in Highland, NY, the Ridgefield Guild of Artists, Ridgefield, Conn, Waveny Park, New Canaan, Conn., the Catskill Mountain Foundation in Hunter, New York, the
Eliza Pritzker Gallery in New Paltz, NY and at many local galleries and stores.  Her work
is part of private
collections in the United States, South America,
Australia and Europe.  Her work is currently at RiverWinds Gallery, 172 Main St, Beacon, NY
plus other locations listed on the Show page. Retired from IBM, where she held various management positions, she now devotes her time to capturing the beauty of
nature through her photography business, and her gallery, .Country EleganceRiverWinds, 172
Main Street, Beacon, New York www.RiverWindsGallery.com THURSDAY, JUNE 5 REGISTRATION
4:00-5:00 OLIN 107  Led by Dr.
Bernard Tieger, Bard College (emeritus) Gather on Olin steps at 4:45 Settled about 1715, Tivoli
was a ferry landing and produced
cloth and bricks. Frenchman Peter de
Labigarre platted Tivoli in the 1790s; it never grew much beyond serving as a home to
commercial fishermen and
railroad workers. The village,
incorporated 1872, also produced
hats, barrels and
boxes. At the end of the 19th
century Tivoli began to decline.
In very recent years it has drawn many Bard students and others as residents, and has
become something of a tourist destination.
Our guide will be village
historian Dr. Bernard Tieger,
proprietor of a popular Tivoli bookstore. After the tour we will enjoy dinner at Tivoli
excellent Mexican restaurant.5:00-6:30 Walking Tour of Tivoli FRIDAY, JUNE 6  REGISTRATION
8:00-4:00 OLIN 107 EXHIBITIONS
8:00-4:00 OLIN 201-202 Olin
203Friday 9:00 The Darker Side of
History Michael P. Gray, East Stroudburg University
Stockade City in the Southern
Tier T Jack Hotchkiss,
Scotia-Glenville Traveling
Museum he Governor and the Tiger: The Fall of Gov William Sulzer Comment: Vernon Benjamin,
Marist College Olin 204Friday
9:00 Warren Broderick, New York
State ArchivesMohicans in Fiction and Poetry The Valley has battlefields, forts,
cottages, industry, Presidents, the rich and famous, the small and unknown, waves of
immigration, movements of colonization, the
birthplace of ecology, art, architecture, Peace & Love, the Long Grey Line at West Point,
mountains, and recreational opportunities of every
description and type.
Whatever your interests, be
they grand outdoor sculpture or
small hidden nooks and crannies, you can
find it, and more just to the north. So come on
up and discover what the rest of
us have. Life in The City can be grand, but life in the Valley can be spectacular!!! Here
are a couple of ideas for you to follow on your visit to our most beautiful valley. Excerpts
from the NY State Scenic Byways Guide The Hudson River Valley, designated as a National
Heritage Area by Congress in November 1966, is the "landscape that defined America." The
region has played a significant role in shaping the
history of the United States for nearly 400 years. The Hudson River, flowing about 120 miles through 10
counties, is dotted by a mix of
riverside villages and small cities. The historic river towns of Westchester along the
majestic Hudson offer spectacular views of
the Palisades and opportunities to
visit numerous villages, artists lofts,
antique shops and historic sites such as Kykuit in the village of Sleepy Hollow. The Hudson
River's dramatic landscape
begins with wide expanses along the Palisades. Also in Hyde Park, make sure you visit the Vanderbilt Mansion National Historic Site () for a peek at how the richest
man in America lived during the “Gilded Age.”  More than 50 local workers were required to
cook, clean, and oversee the
grounds and farm, where the
Vanderbilt’s grew much of their own food and
all the flowers for
their lavish arrangements. But once you get them, ask them why they aren't offering their brochures
right here,where you were looking for them!! Step #1 - Select the Brochures You Want Hudson
Valley Tourism Guides -HVT's Hudson River Valley Travel GuideOfficial guide to the Hudson
River Valley
published by Hudson Valley Tourism Request Brochure: HVT's Hudson River Waterfront Map-
Published by Hudson Valley Tourism, a guide focusing
on the boating and
tourism sites
directly on the river. Request Brochure: CLRC assists libraries schools and museums in
these counties to provide digital access to unique local resources. Regional Automation
and Library Services and
Technology grants administered
through CLRC provided funding for digitizing and web access to many of the collections and images. Information about the is available at this site, as well as
CLRC/DHP publications such asThe
Central New York Library Resources
Council, regional Documentary Heritage Program . Documenting Family History   fter having
successfully marketed a wide range of full-scale projects during four different decades,
Mid-Hudson Marketing
draws expertise from
a broad business perspective and years of hands-on experience. The firm began in downtown
Poughkeepsie, New York in a small office in the GSA building adjacent to the Civic Center
on Main Street. This was during the mid-seventies when the Civic Center regularly welcomed some of the top musical acts of the time including Bruce Springsteen,
James Taylor, and others. Soon thereafter, Mid-Hudson Marketing moved to 35 Market Street, to
the Bardavon Building, where it had an extensive
suite of offices and
a large staff to accommodate such high profile clients as the U.S. Vanderbilt Mansion This
54-room Beaux Arts mansion was built in the late 19th century as the summer home of Frederick
and Louise Vanderbilt (he was the grandson of Cornelius Vanderbilt). He house stands on the site of a previous home, built in 1764. When the Vanderbilts bought the original house in 1895, they had it torn down. The present structure was completed in 1895 and commands an excellent view of the Hudson River
and the Catskill Mountains. The mansion is lavishly decorated in a number of European
motifs. 845-229-9115 Franklin Delano Roosevelt Library and Home The Colonial Revival house is
the most famous house in the region. The ancestral home of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, the
32nd president of the United States, the estate had been in his family since 1867. FDR was born and grew up here, and he always considered it his home. The site includes the home, a 35-room, 9-bathroom Georgian Revival style mansion, stables, extensive grounds, and rose garden, where the President and
Mrs. Roosevelt are buried.   About The
Artist:  Linda Hubbard Linda T. Hubbard is a photographer who is a native of New England and
also loves her home in the Hudson River Valley.  "I love to capture the beauty, peace and
serenity of nature - the sunlight
on the mountains, the incredible detail of a flower, the glorious colors of the sun setting over
the river." Next, you'll be
heading north on Route 9 to the . Once at the mansion site, you may wish to take the tour
of the marble mansion built by
Frederick Vanderbilt and completed in 1899. The
mansion's interiors were partly decorated by Ogden Codman, author of "The Decoration of Houses", one of the first books to note the correlation between interior
decoration and architecture. Springwood Vanderbilt Mansion> As you head further north into Staasburg,
you may want to stop at an antique shop along the way. There is now a loan fund for Dutchess
County businesses that are
planning upgrades and improvements
that will reduce their energy consumption and/or for utilizing alternative energy. Known as
the , the “green”
fund can be accessed through The Dutchess
County Economic Development Corporation (DCEDC).Revolving Loan Fund (RLF) See News and Events
for details. . . .  Now Available
Online: The 2007 DCEDC Annual Report The offers information and highlights of DCEDC
accomplishments and activities in areas relating to: new development projects, External
Marketing Council,
Poughkeepsie/Dutchess Empire
Zone, DCEDC Business Development Program, Dutchess
County Industrial Development
Agency, Dutchess County Tourism,
and the 2007 Business Excellence
Awards celebration. 2007 DCEDC Annual Report The Dutchess County Economic Development
Corporation (DCEDC)
Is Celebrating Its 30th Anniversary in 2008 Yes! We hear the sound of well-earned applause.
During three exciting decades that included periods of economic sea change both regionally and nationally,DCEDC has grown to be widely recognized as one of the top
economic development groups in the United States. Some of Amtrak's long-distance trains stop
at Metro-North's Poughkeepsie station.Amtrak [7] [][] edit add listing See Locust Grove. ,
2683 South Rd, 454-4500, . The former estate of Samuel F. B. Morse, whose patent of the
electromagnetic telegraph revolutionized human
communication. Set on
150 acres, the Italianate villa was
designed by architect Alexander Jackson
Davis. House tours daily 10AM-3PM, May 1-Nov 30. Closed major holidays. Adults $9, youth
(6-18) $5.Locust Grove+1 845 [8] , 124 Raymond Avenue, 437-7300, . Founded in 1861, Vassar
College is a highly selective, residential, coeducational liberal arts college. Consistently
ranked among the top liberal arts colleges in the country, Vassar is renowned for pioneering
achievements in education, for its long history of curricular innovation, and for the beauty of
its campus. Especially noteworthy is the Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center, which has ancient,
medieval, Asian, European and American art and
objects, well worth a visit. Touring the
scenic roads of the Hudson Valley is an exhilarating journey through farms, historic sites,
picturesque cottages, magnificent homes, wonderful gardens and breathtaking panoramas.
There's a wonderful trail that runs through Dutchess County and passes through the Hyde
Park historic sites, Rhinebeck and Red Hook. Also along the way, you'll be able to stop at farm
stands that offer
fresh produce and refreshments to make your trip more
enjoyable. You'll be starting
in Hyde Park, at , birthplace of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt.   Fresh From The
Farm In Dutchess County, New York Located in the heart of the Hudson River Valley mid-way
between New York City and Albany, our county has more than 650 farms encompassing about one-fifth (or 20 percent) of the area’s total acreage.  Together these small,
mostly individual- and
family-owned farms – which include dairy, fruits, vegetables, nurseries and greenhouses, hay,
horses and other agricultural crops and products – enrich our area in many ways. Relax,
explore, experience and enjoy our bucolic farms, vineyards and food markets.  Sample our
mouth-watering restaurants.  Visit our quaint shops and galleries.  And stay overnight in
our local B&Bs which serve homemade fare using the freshest, local ingredients. Local farms
not only add to the quality of
life in Dutchess County, they also generate millions of dollars in annual sales and
provide a direct economic benefit to our area – all while supplying a variety of fresh,
great-tasting foods and beverages to chose
from. The “American Leonardo” was
a true Renaissance man - a
premier American artist who also worked as a landscape designer, architect, and, of course,
inventor of the telegraph and
Morse code. www.morsehistoricsite.org The house tour features an extensive collection of
china, and the dining room is set for Sunday dinner. See the butler’s pantry and full kitchen, imaging how it was to be on-staff in a bygone day! Of particular
interest are the Victorian-style formal and
heirloom vegetable gardens. In
particular, the kitchen vegetable garden shows not only what each family grew but is divided
into plots illustrating what new waves of
immigrants would plant to
eat. The mobility provided by the
MTA helps ensure New York's place as a world center of finance, commerce, culture, and entertainment.
Since 1982 the MTA has been
carrying out
America's most extensive transportation rebuilding
project. With funding by
federal, state, and local government and by the issuance of bonds, the MTA has replaced or
overhauled nearly all of the subway, railroad, and bus fleets; rebuilt maintenance shops and
much of the 2,000 miles of subway and railroad track; rehabilitated scores of subway and
railroad stations; and restored Grand Central Terminal and the LIRR's Penn Station.
MetroCard automated fare
collection and E-ZPass® electronic toll
collection revolutionized payment
on subways, buses, bridges, and tunnels. MetroCard brought free transfers between subways and
buses, multiride bonuses, and weekly,
monthly, and daily transit passes, reducing the cost
of public transportation for the first time. Time passed and a different era emerged as a
result of the changing business climate in the Hudson Valley and nation, prompting
Mid-Hudson Marketing to move
uptown to Poughkeepsie's
glamorous 11 Raymond Avenue location near
Vassar College where it served a diverse group of successful clients for more than 22
years. These included the Dutchess County
Economic Development Corporation; the Veterans' Administration at Castle Point and Montrose;
Tuckahoe Roofing; Manfredi
Contracting Corporation; the Eastern
Pharmaceutical Technology Companies; and many others. Currently, in its 34th year, Mid-Hudson Marketing has chosen to work from a serene lakeside location in Eastern
Dutchess County's
Holmes, in the Town of Pawling,
where the environmental beauty inspires
creativity and winning strategies for local, regional, national and international clients of
outstanding repute. Home — Get Out of Town Search HV/Net Any Word All Words “Get Out of
Town!" Feeling pent up and
just want to get out of "The City" for a day
or a weekend? Have you heard the
rumors, (they're true you know...), about the traffic nightmares heading out to Long Island?
Some of the changes include a new color scheme, easier site navigation, consistent layout
throughout the site, and more photos,
including those of department heads, so that
residents can associate a
face with the agencies that are providing services to them. - The web site reorganization is
one of the most important changes. The new site is reorganized by rather than only by County
Department. This will make it
easier for the public to locate County services. The County has begun its focus on providing
online services to the public. This goes
well beyond just including nformationabout County departments on the web site. As a start,
the web site includes automated bidding functions, recruitment/exams, and lots of County
forms as well as links to web sites containing State and Federal forms. Using proven
principles of marketing applicable to any type of business, Mid-Hudson Marketing's experience and versatility represent a wide variety of industry perspectives
including:       • Architecture •
Construction • Education •
Engineering • Entertainment • Environmental
Services • Fashion • Finance • Flooring • Food and Dining • Government • Healthcare • Home
Improvement • Interior Design • Landscaping • Law • Leisure • Manufacturing • Pharmaceuticals
• Real Estate • Roofing • Travel • Non-Profit Organizations       This handsome building
contains gifts, mementos and personal items of the President and Mrs. Roosevelt, as well as their
personal papers and collections. 845-229-9115.
http://www.fdrlibrary.marist.edu/ Val-Kill This was the country home of Eleanor Roosevelt.
Built by FDR in the local Dutch style for his wife, this small house was used by Mrs.
Roosevelt as a second residence until FDR's death in 1945, and as a primary residence until
her death in 1962. The site includes Val-Kill Cottage, the stone cottage, and the famous
swimming pool where the President and
foreign dignitaries swam. Hudson River Valley Olana
This was the home and studio of the Hudson River School artist Frederic Church (1826-1900). Church developed the estate as a three-dimensional work of art, a totally
integrated environment embracing architecture, art and landscape. 518-828-0135 Clermont
Clermont, the oldest of the mid-Hudson Valley
estates, is a place of remarkable and unspoiled
natural beauty. It was part of
the estate created by Robert Livingston in the late 17th century. The original manor house
was destroyed by the British in 1777, but the family immediately rebuilt in the same Georgian
style as the original house.
The house today reflects over
two hundred years of ownership by the Livingstons, and is located on the 450-acre Clermont
State Historic Site. 518-437-4240 Mills Mansion This was the country home of Ogden and Ruth
Livingston Mills. The mansion is
an elegant example of the great estates built in the 19th century by America's financial and
industrial tycoons. Located on river front property acquired in 1792 by Mrs. Mills' ancestors,
the house was designed to resemble an English country house of the late 18th century. The beaux Arts mansion contains many original furnishings and decorations. []
edit By plane , 1180 First St, New Windsor, 564-2100, . The closest major airport, but at
present offers few direct
flights to major destinations.Stewart International Airport+1 845 [1] , 240 Airport Road, ,
995-4860 (airlines), . Two counties away, but an alternative to the congestion of the 3 major
international airports around New York City.
Rental cars available.Westchester County Airport White Plains +1 914 [2] , , , , , and : Livery
cars offer service to and from 3 major international airports. It is possible in a convoluted sort of way to get to and from JFK via Metro-North Railroad and New York City Transit.Newark Liberty International Airport Newark New Jersey [3] John F. Kennedy International Airport [4] LaGuardia Airport [5] []
edit By train , . This is the
last station stop on Hudson
Line commuter trains out of New York City.