A GED is accepted by all public and most private
colleges and universities, as well as most employers. GMAT is the most effective test available for admission to business schools.emand for qualified professionals in education and research industry is increasing. Prepare for the GRE and get going. Getting admission in a law school is now easy with the LSAT Preparation course which thoroughly teaches you the techniques and helps to build skills to take the LSAT test. The cost of the course is $125 and is open to
the first 40 individuals who meet the
following
qualifications:The next mini GMAT Prep Course in Atlanta begins in February 2009! Apply for Atlanta or program MBA MAcc ( ) Online Application Provide transcripts to show a 4-year degree from regionally accredited institution with a minimum 2.5 GPA International applicants must have achieved the minimum required TOEFL score provide evaluation on any international transcripts showing
equivalency to a U.S. 9 practice tests, extensive online resources, over 3000 realistic GMAT questions exclusive to Kaplan, and GMAC's with
retired GMAT questions Includes access to state-of-the-art virtual classroom and complimentary headset Focuses on advanced contentOfficial Guide  9 practice tests, extensive online resources, over 3000 realistic GMAT questions exclusive to Kaplan, and GMAC's with retired GMAT questionsOfficial Guide Timeline You schedule the timeline with your tutor Usually 6-12 weeks Usually 4-9 weeks, although other options are
available Usually 4-9 weeks You control the pace, although suggested time is 4-6 weeks Practice is when you sit down and practice those methods. The best move is to buy one, and only one, commercial test preparation book, complete it, and then
practice the methods you’ve learned on former GMAT exams, such as those found in ETS’ , plus practice on practice GMAT CATs (computer adaptive tests).  You'll need to make a decision on which commercial book you pick – but pick one and stick with it. You can succeed on the GMAT by preparing in depth for the different question types and being able to take difficult questions and break them down into easier parts that you can quickly solve. Repetition and thorough preparation is a process that rewards those willing to work hard, which means that passing the GMAT is within the reach of virtually anyone willing to invest the time in learning how to handle any question they might face on test day. Class Time Choose from 15, 25, or 35 tutoring hours Includes free access to GMAT classroom or Advanced course. 12 lessons including diagnostic test, including 3 math-content review sessions 2 hours of one-on-one tutoring 32.5 total lesson hours 9 lessons include diagnostic test 23 total lesson hours 10 lessons 2 hours of one-on-one tutoring 27 total lesson hours 9 lessons 9 lessons include diagnostic test They
have over 5,000 GMAT annually students at 65 locations worldwide. Their admissions consultant service has former admissions officers from most of the top 20 business schools.BusinessWeek Over 2000 pages of materials 15 practice tests 42 hours of class instruction Unlimited instructor phone and email tutoring support Instructors have scored above the 99th percentile (760+ GMAT) Classroom Products: Weekend/ Focus course:
$700. 42-hour course $1400 Online courses: $750 or $1100 (live) The GMAT consists of three main parts. The consists of two basic writing tasks -- Analysis of an Issue and Analysis of an Argument. You are allowed 30 minutes to complete each one. Analytical Writing Assessment The contains 37 multiple-choice questions of two question types -- Data Sufficiency and Problem Solving. You are allowed a maximum of 75 minutes to complete the entire section. Quantitative section The contains 41 multiple-choice questions of three question types -- Reading Comprehension, Critical Reasoning, and Sentence Correction. You are allowed 75 minutes to complete this entire section. Verbal section Each passage engages with a specialized topic or opinion in either the Humanities, Social Sciences, Science, or Business, but no specific outside knowledge of the material is required; all questions refer to what is stated or implied in the text. The directions for these questions look like this: Each passage is followed by questions about its content. After reading a passage, select the best answer to each question among the
five choices. It's a great time to go to business
school—recruiting
and starting salaries continue to climb for MBA
graduates. But the competition is intense, so it's important that you have an outstanding application package, including a top GMAT score, to gain acceptance at the business school of your choice. Thorough preparation is essential on a computer-adaptive exam like the GMAT, and Kaplan offers a variety of different GMAT preparation programs to help you get the high score you want. On average, 100 students at each law
school and 65 students at each business school
were surveyed for the rankings lists appearing in the new editions of the books. The 80-question survey asked
students about their school's academics, student body and campus life, themselves, and their career
plans. Most of the surveys were completed online at The Princeton Review's student survey site: http://survey.review.com. A small percent were paper surveys completed on the campuses. School profiles in "Best 174 Law Schools" and "Best 296 Business Schools" cover admission, academics, financial aid, campus life and career information. When you finish the test, the computer will offer the option of canceling the test or accepting it. If you
cancel the test, neither you nor any school will
see your score. If you accept the test,
the computer will display your score and it will be available to all schools. Options 1 & 2: $675.00 Option 3: $500.00 All course materials included The entire fee is due upon registration. Regisration:t or 716-645-3200 Online The School of Management offers a non-credit refresher course for the Graduate Management Admissions Test (GMAT). An intensive preparation for the graduate
school entrance examinations, the course covers
quantitative processes related to the GMAT and all graduate professional school entrance examinations.  Actual GMAT questions will be used in class, and instruction will be geared toward the computerized GMAT test. Of course, you’ll also get all the test-prep techniques you expect from The Princeton ReviewIn , we’ll teach you how to think like the test writers and ·Solve complex
sentence correction problems by recognizing key errors ·Crack tough data sufficiency questions using simple techniques ·Practice online with full-length tests, lessons, and drills ·Get the most out of your prep time with the study plan that’s right for you We give you plenty of practice problems to help you master our proven techniques. Obviously, these are two very different testing experiences that require different
kinds of practice and preparation. If you are
not accustomed to the format of the test, you may experience some difficulty getting acclimated to
the setting on the day of the test.-1. Test format Here is a
general rule of thumb: the closer your test prep
mirrors
the format of the test, the less disorientation you will experience when you take the test. With competition for admission into school tougher than ever, high standardized test scores are imperative. The Princeton Review's courses and tutors are
the most personal and effective ways that you and your family members can prepare for the
standardized admissions tests such as
the SAT, ACT, MCAT, LSAT, GRE, and
GMAT. The Princeton Review's test prep methods are based upon proven strategies, which have helped more than a million students maximize their scores and get into their top-choice schools.   Online Test Prep Courses- Courses in Test Preparation The Test Prep courses are a series of courses to prepare you for different kinds of useful tests. Technological advances in the workplace have made a high school diploma essential for almost all workers. If you want to obtain employment or advance in your career, you will need to demonstrate to your employer that you have at least a high school education. CAT adapt to your performance by changing in difficulty   If you are extremely good at sentence correction and weak at reading comp and critical reasoning.... guess what? Your skill in
sentence correction will make the GMAT deliver you very hard reading comp and critical reasoning questions. The
moral of the story.... The methods in the live
classes and the books are usually quite similar. What To Buy For GMAT Self-Study 1- Commercial Preparation Book. See our for suggestions. GMAT Test Preparation Book Comparison Charts 2- ETS’ .Official Guide for GMAT Review 3- and any other quality computer tests you can find. ETS’ PowerPrep Software How To Self-Study for the GMAT Step 1- Complete the commercial prep book. Use the methods, no matter how
insignificant those methods may seem. The GMAT is a
(computer-adaptive test) so the questions will begin at an intermediate skill level and . In general, average test takers will get about 50% right of the questions right. As result, higher scorers are effectively taking a completely different test
from lower scorers and their strategies will be
adjusted accordingly. Higher scorers will get longer and more challenging essays and questions. PR Math Principles and Arithmetic sections, pages 1-83. RECAP OF DAY 1 INSIGHTS: 1. The GMAT is
testing highschool-level math. 2. Practice, practice,
practice is the
key to success. 3. Don't study near a TV. The Why, Materials, Strategy Tuesday, March 29, 2005 So why am I blogging my GMAT study schedule? I wish to provide a detailed study guide for future GMAT test takers. However, Kaplan retains the right to approve the use of the content and the placement prior to
its use.Exclusive Content kaptest.com always runs
exciting promotions for our customers. As an affiliate, you can extend our promotions and exclusive offers to your visitors. In fact, some offers will only be available through our affiliate network.Promotions and Special Offers Kaplan is well-known for promoting success stories. If you are a successful kaptest.com affiliate, we may choose your company for special promotional and public relations opportunities.Public Relations Opportunities Heres What Youll Get: 18 hours of one-on-one instruction Online private tutoring sessions using our real-time Online Classroom 2-way audio  talk with your GMAT tutor! Access to over 100 multimedia lessons Full set of home study
materials Full-length practice tests and diagnostic score reports Expert feedback on your essay through LiveGrader SM Additional online GMAT tutoring hours are available We back it up We've spent millions of dollars studying the GMAT, developing
unique online materials, and training tutors. Students are partially ranked by on the basis of their MCAT exam scores. From the admissions
committees' point of view, the MCAT is the only way to objectively compare you to applicants from
other undergraduate schools. admissions committees It deserves to be treated with at least the same amount of preparation that you would use to prepare for any other test. . The practice of
copying essays from the Internet is a no-no! Professors have a knack for spotting a copy, because they sift through a mammoth number of applications every year. But do use them as a reference and source of inspiration.iv . Other than that, your essay must feature your personal experiences and be as original as possible.v What kind of work hours suit you? ~When should you apply?
Compare Online GMAT Programs Our GMAT online course comparison chart can help you find which is right for you. GMAT online study option Customized Experience Our GMAT online courses are interactive and engaging, and are tailored to meet your specific strengths and weaknesses. This is not a pre-packaged course. Your experience will be uniquely tailored with customized diagnostic score reports and personalized homework assignments. What You'll Get