Traditions of the Sun: Chaco Culture National Historical Park and The Yucatan are interactive applications which allow visitors to explore both the park in Chaco Canyon and the Mayan archaeological sites of the Northern Yucatan, by navigating satellite and aerial images. The sites contain hundreds of photographs, panoramic images,
time-lapse videos, and other multimedia components. This project is a collaboration between NASA's Sun-Earth Connection Education Forum, the National Park Service at Chaco Canyon, INAH and UNAM in Mexico, and Ideum, a multimedia design firm located in Corrales, New Mexico. Related Domains- Ranked #12970 among .de
websites
- Ranked #5990 among .za websites - Ranked #2721 among .nl websites - Ranked #21185 among .dk websites - Ranked #9268 among .cl websites - Ranked #8591 among .it websites - Ranked #1882 among .gr
websites - Ranked #3453 among .be websites - Ranked #16373 among .in websites - Ranked #2346 among .il websites - Ranked #3194 among .nz websites - Ranked #11765 among .hu websites space.de 1392530kmAll planets rotate around the sun, it is the centre of our Solar System. The Sun exerts a powerful force of gravity attracting other bodies to it.
This force is what keeps the planets orbiting the sun. The Sun spins around its axis once every 25 days. The sun is far larger than any other object in the Solar System. The planets all formed from this spinning disk-shaped cloud, and continued this rotating course around the sun after they were formed. The gravity of the sun keeps the
planets in their orbits. The stay in their orbits because there is no other force in the solar system which can stop them. You also might enjoy a look at the solar images from space. The YPOP Solar Classroom is filled with hands-on, solar related activities. There is something for everyone. Many of these activities teach you about the Sun itself.
Others teach a physical concept, like rotation, using the Sun as an example. We invite teachers, students, parents and children of all ages to experiment with the activities below. Give each student or pair a thermometer and the age-appropriate handout. Go over where the students may go to take the temperature of different surfaces. Remind them to
let a thermometer sit on a surface for three or four minutes before they take a reading and to let a thermometer get back down to air temperature before taking the reading of another surface. He writes It is now obvious that discrete and separate 'particles' do not exist - that this harmony arises from a Wave Structure of Matter in Space
(we are all interconnected in this space that we commonly experience). This underlying unity of reality (God, Brahman, Tao, Spirit, Energy, Light, Vibration) is central to all major world religions, thus their common as the other is part of the self. Because of that, we can study it better than any other star. And when you do that, you see that the Sun
isn't as boring as it may
look from earth! In the following `Trip through the Sun' you'll see flames on the Sun larger than ten earths, winds going
1000 mph, and you'll see how the earth eventually will be scorched by the dying Sun. Anaxogoras ca 320 BC believed the Sun was a fiery stone as were the stars and other planets. Aristotle proposed the Sun was made of a Fire essence, and the stars and planets were made from a 5th essence called Aether. From what I can
tell, it wasn't until Giordano Bruno in 1583 that stars were equated as suns in their own right, with orbiting planets a la Copernicus. Because of this we are able to study the Sun in
great detail using an array of instrumentation both in and on the . With dedicated solar telescopes we are able to identify individual features on the and in the . The average star, however, is many light years away, the closest being Proxima Centauri at approximately 4.5 light years distance. The great distances involved in
stellar astronomy means that normal telescopes are not particularly useful in studying the average star.