I have lived in Alaska for over 10 years and have a thorough knowledge of the Juneau market.  I
have appraised in Southeast
Alaska and I am aware of the questions that
underwriters typically have
for this market - is a view really worth that much? is it really in an avalanche area? These
discussions are part of every assignment, and when completed, provides us with a clear
understanding of the history
of the local market as well as the market's
perception of the future. Our appraisals are
used for a variety of purposes, including purchase price allocation relating to FASB 141
and 142, bankruptcy proceedings, gift and estate tax planning, litigation support, and
mortgage lending. Appraisals
are based on past sales data, the
location of the home, the
size of the lot and the condition of the home. If the buyer's mortgage is insured through
the FHA, the appraiser must
disclose potential
problems relating to
the physical condition of the home; there are no similar stipulations for non-FHA mortgages. The Dealmakers Resource Center Facts and figures on senior care and
health care companies making news in the markets We
will not sell or trade your email--ever.   Privacy
Policy Appraisal Institute The
Appraisal Institute is a global membership association of professional real estate
appraisers, with nearly 23,000 members and
92 chapters throughout the world.  Organized in 1932, its mission is to support and advance its members as the choice for real estate solutions and uphold
professional credentials,
standards of professional practice and ethics consistent with the public good.  The Appraisal
Institute advocates equal opportunity and nondiscrimination in the appraisal profession and
conducts its activities in accordance with applicable federal, state and local laws.  Members
of the Appraisal Institute benefit from an array of professional education and advocacy
programs, and may hold the
prestigious MAI, SRPA and SRA
designations. The closing
department notifies the
closing attorney of the approval and verifies all closing expenses. The closing attorney then
schedules a time for the borrower to sign the loan documentation. At the closing the
borrower should: Bring a cashiers check for your down payment and closing costs (made payable
to you to be signed over at the closing).
As each important milestone in an
assignment is completed, that information is
available to you online. It's never been easier and faster to keep track of your report's
status.Are you using our website as a resource to keep track of your report's status? MAKE IT A
PROFITABLE DAY! APPRAISAL 2000 2538 Vera Cruz Circle Henderson, NV 89074 Ottawa, Toronto,
Montreal, Halifax, Calgary, Winnipeg, Vancouver, and Edmonton are of the areas covered by our
instant home valuation service. All we need is the address and postal code. You can run a
report on any property in our database. now.instantestimated value of your home See for
yourself how accurate we are by
clicking here Often the first step
in fairly disposing of an estate is to understand its true value. Where property is involved,
the appraiser can help determine the true value. At this point, equitable arrangements can
more easily be arrived at
among disputing parties. Everyone walks
away knowing they've received a fair deal. There are other uses for real estate
appraisals. Cross linking into other real estate related national directories is unique to
and provides added Internet exposure to our members. http://www.MortgageLinks.org http://www.RealtyLinks.org http://www.InspectorLinks.com Feeappraiser.com There is
only one residential and one commercial Header
listing per county. Once the Header listing has been taken in your county, it might not be
available again for years. Reverse Mortgages Appraisals An appraisal of real estate is the
valuation of the rights of
ownership, the appraiser must
define the rights he intends to appraise. The appraiser does not create value, the appraiser
interprets the market to arrive at
a value estimate. As the appraiser compiles data pertinent to a report, consideration must be
given to the site and amenities as well as the physical condition of the property. Order
Appraisal Report Call 416-282-4111 INHOUSE APPRAISAL CORPORATION Box 6107, Station "A",
Toronto, Ontario, Canada   M5W 1P5 33 Ivan Road, Toronto, Ontario, Canada   M1C 1V1 Phone
(416) 282-4111                       Fax
(416) 282-7353 REAL ESTATE APPRAISERS AND
CONSULTANTS info@ihac.com We specialize in residential house or home real estate
appraisals, valuation, and consulting in
the Greater  TORONTO Area (GTA), Ontario
Canada.  Our Appraisers are designated
professionals of the Appraisal Institute of
Canada.  We provide a wide range of residential real estate evaluation, valuation and
appraisal assignments for
mortgages, divorce, employee
relocation, accounting, selling, listing, litigation and power of sale appraisals to Mortgage Companies, Banks, Trust Companies, Credit Unions, Lawyers, Accountants, Real Estate Agents, Financial Planners and Home Owners, For Sale By Owner - FSBO.  We service Toronto, North York, Scarborough, Etobicoke,
Mississauga, Markham, Richmond Hill, Thornhill, Vaughan, Woodbridge, Pickering, Ajax and
Whitby all of which are included in Metro Toronto, York Region, Durham Region and Peel
Region. Prior to his Air Force
retirement, Dick Storgaard entered real estate as a "next career". That led quickly into the
appraisal field, and that, along with managing the business, has remained his continuous
occupation since. He is a member of the and the . He is also a Life Member of the Air Force
Association, the Reserve Officers Association and the Semiahmoo Yacht Club. After you've
occupied the home as your residence and as time passes, the taxable and assessed values will
again begin to separate in amounts. It used to be that when considering multiplying the
assessed value by two that would be
approximately what the home would appraise
for. In today's market this
is not necessarily true and
usually isn't a good tool to use for figuring a home's approximate value. Combining my extensive
knowledge of the "Greater"
Eastside (East of Lake Washington) with my
expertise in real estate will
produce results for you. My commitment is to
my clients, I will help you achieve your dreams by finding the Issaquah area home you are
looking for in the
area you wish to reside in. It is a
negotiated value which changes relative to market
conditions, supply of homes, demand, and seasonality in some cases. Market value is created
by the home buyer and seller. Too often, buyers and sellers have a notion some other
factor determines market value, when in reality; those two parties determine market value.
When it comes time for the
lendersappraiser to come out to appraise the property, the properties that have recently
sold (commonly known as
comps) are what he will use to help determine the value of your house. If there is an (and
there usually is), you can see how important it is to comply with the price range a CMA
shows. You will be able to give a homeowner a
complete action plan to get their home
staged to sell fast. The AHS
course goes through a logical 5-step sequence for
staging a home both inside and out with each step broken down for every room. Youll learn
the dos and donts plus the best way to
deal with the client to avoid the potential for
hurt feelings... Owners deserve to know what they can expect to pay for a property at the ... by
Published: September 20, 2007 Anyone considering putting their property up for sale will
require the services
of real estate appraisers. Indeed, real estate appraisals are vital tools for any property
owner, selling or not. Pricing your home is not easy. If you ask too much it may never sell,
asking too little throws away hard earned equity. A Market Analysis can show current selling prices for
similar properties to help
you find a asking price reflecting the current market and your own needs. Many factors affect the current market price. For a more detailed description of the
appraisal process click here: An appraiser provides a professional, unbiased opinion of
market value, to be
used in making real estate decisions. Appraisers present their formal analysis in appraisal
reports.     There are many reasons to obtain an appraisal with the most common reason being real estate and mortgage transactions. The changes include increased
requirements for qualifying education and experience, and a new Uniform State Appraiser
Examination. The manner in which the Office of Real Estate Appraisers will implement the new criteria is important to understand. For all initial license
applications and upgrade applications received on or after January 1, 2008, applicants must meet all components (education, experience, and examination) of the new requirements. Our experienced and bonded team of professionals work closely with the seller through all phases of the auction to prepare and
present items so as to maximize sale price. We can deliver the necessary equipment and
services to ensure a
successful sale. Professional Team of Auctioneers and personnel: needed for preparation and
operation of the auction including office staff, catalog staff, auctioneers, ring men,
clerks, cashiers, and check out staff after
the auction. The Seller decides whether the Seller and Broker is able to disclose that another competing offer has been received, contemplated, or is being
negotiated. The home buyer's Broker will disclose this information to the Buyer if it is
received. The Buyer is NOT
entitled to this information without express
permission from the Seller. Search for key decision makers by company, rank, industry,
department, geography and more All the contacts you need at A-1 Appraisals & Estate Sales
as well as contacts at Related Companies There is currently no information for
a1estatesales.com in Jigsaw Company Wiki Know
something about this
a1estatesales.com? Click here to
update the wiki! Richard was
quoted by See
"Appraisers: Message from a fee appraiser" Washington State Department of Liscensing . The
Appraisers at American Home Appraisals are among the best in the area. If you need high
quality appraisals or the services of experienced and professionals... this is the firm
to turn to.tested Lenders who care... The Third Reportshows:  The latest selling price of
each comparable property, the date
of the sales, the address of each
property and other comparable
details and features of each property. The Fourth Reportis a map showing the location and
address of each comparable
property used in
arriving at the current value of
your property. McGee Lane Self Storage 1850 McGee Lane Lewisville, TX 75077 972-317-3112
Residential Real Estate Internet
Resources is the nation's
oldest
multidisciplinary professional
appraisal society. Free, but registration is
required. American Society of Appraisers American Society of Appraisers Find a qualified
appraiser or read about what they do, when and why you need an appraisal, and how to get a
copy of your appraisal report. The public record for your property may not be up-to-date,
so be sure to include your current information for living space in square feet, number of
bedrooms, number of baths - full & half, and garage spaces if any. Remember, the more
details you provide, the more accurate the results will be. We'll send along a broker's price
opinion to the email
address you provide.  There's , , and for your initial home assessment.no costno obligationno
visit is required ^ Back to list No. A newly licensed driver, according to Massachusetts
law, cannot transport anyone under 18 years of age. (NOTE: Children driving with learner's
permits do not need to be added as listed
operators on your
insurance policy until they pass their licensing exam.)Q. Can a newly licensed driver
transport any age passenger? It also represents an excellent opportunity for the prospective
buyer to ask questions about the home or to discuss
potential changes. Home inspections should also highlight the positive aspects of a home.
In fact, many of the home inspector's observations or recommendations help to dispel home
purchaser anxieties, and provide useful repair suggestions. The home inspector's service to the
purchaser is primarily one of education. It is well maintained inside and out It is located
in a good school district Additions fit well into the existing house Properties throughout
the neighborhood are well
maintained It is the largest house on the block (or the most improved) The style of the house
conforms with those in the neighborhood Zoning changes are expected Maybe you feel like you
don't need an "appraisal" but you'd still like some help gathering local property and sales
data. We can provide
low cost sales and listing
reports that will guide you through the maze of raw data. Our reports help you to make an
informed buying decision. Heavy manufacturing Small Office/warehouse/light manufacturing
Light Industrial
(distribution/storage)
Research & Development/Lab/High-tech Bioengineering Other industrial not listed here
Business Valuations, Litigation Support, Appraisal & Valuation Services RD Clifford
Associates, Inc. is a full service provider of Appraisals, Valuations, Consulting and Expert Testimonies for the real estate, mortgage lending, machinery and
equipment, capital asset,
divorce and estate settlement
markets. All American Home Values provides and . Quick and accurate in WA.instant house
appraisals in Washingtonhome value
estimateshome appraisal value Knowing your WA house value will set a solid foundation for
your home selling price.For Home Sellers:For Home Buyers: Home value in Washington Why you
need your home's value in Washington Why sellers need a home value estimate Often, the loan
amount is derived from 40% to 60% of the value of the pledged assets. To obtain the maximum
loan amount, a business owner would need to provide a certified appraisal report. back to top
Insurable Value It is
undoubtedly necessary for a
business to purchase
liability insurance in the case of an event such as a fire or a theft. Safety services or
appraisals are provided at the request of
Member States as a means of applying the IAEA safety standards. Hence, the scope of the
services or appraisals is directly related to the areas addressed by the safety standards,
i.e. governmental
organization, research reactors, operation, design and siting of nuclear power plants,
radiation, waste and
transport safety.