In order to vote a
person must Be eighteen years old, be registered to vote and be a citizen of the United States. Be eighteen year
old, a high school graduate and be a citizen of the United States Be twenty-one years old, be registered and be a citizen of the United States. Government 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16 Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, John Jay, The Federalist Papers, ed. Clinton Rossiter, with Introduction and notes by Charles Kesler (New York: Mentor Books, 1999). Declaration of Independence, 1776. Massachusetts Constitution of 1780.The Theory of the American Founding, Part Two: Why Government by Consent? Overview The four figures carved in stone on Mount Rushmore represent the first 150 years of American history. The birth of our nation was guided by the vision and courage of George Washington. Thomas Jefferson always had dreams of something bigger, first in the words of the Declaration of Independence and later in the expansion of our nation through the Louisiana Purchase. Preservation of the union was paramount to Abraham Lincoln but a nation where all men were
free and equal was destined to be. They lived modestly; they moved into half of a duplex two weeks before their first son was born, and she budgeted expenses well within the income of a struggling small-town lawyer. To Grace Coolidge may be credited a full share in her husband's rise in politics. She worked hard, kept up appearances, took her part in town activities, attended her church, and offset his shyness with a gay friendliness. In 1931 she was voted one of America's twelve greatest living women.Biography: She had grown up in the Green Mountain city of Burlington, Vermont, only child of Andrew and Lemira B. Goodhue, born in 1879. While still a girl she heard of a school for deaf children in Northampton, Massachusetts, and eventually decided to share its challenging work. The celebration after the election. 3. A petition is The list of ideas for running the government that a candidate has. A list of signatures backing a person for political office. The list of people who give money to the candidate for office. 4. A campaign is A candidate going around the country telling his/her ideas of how they believe the government should be run, seeking election. A fine French wine The Urban League of Greater Madison stands ready on
day-one to work with the
new Administration, especially in the effort to craft a comprehensive urban agenda that expands opportunity and unleashes the tremendous untapped potential in our cities. But today, we simply say congratulations to President-elect Barack Obama and thank you to the American people for this historic new beginning." He had summed up their marriage in his : "For almost a quarter of a century she was borne with my infirmities, and I have rejoiced in her graces." After his death she sold The Beeches, bought a smaller house, and in time undertook new ventures she had longed to try: her first airplane ride, her first trip to Europe. She kept her aversion to publicity and her sense of fun until her death in 1957. Since the adoption of the Constitution, forty-two individuals have been elected or succeeded into the presidency, the first being , serving forty-three different
presidencies altogether
(since was the twenty-second and twenty-fourth president(s) of the U.S.A.). The current president is , inaugurated on January 20, 2001 to a first term and on January 20, 2005 to a second. His term expires at noon on January 20, 2009, after which he will be replaced by the winner of the . From the middle of the twentieth century, the United States' status as a has led the American president to become one of the world's most well-known and influential public figures. The purchase of the Floridas was brought to a successful issue, February 22, 1819, by a treaty with Spain, concluded at Washington, and thus the control of the entire Atlantic and Gulf seaboard, from the St. Croix to the Sabine, was secured to the United States. Monroe's influence in the controversies that preceded the Missouri compromise does not appear to have been very strong. You can also see major electronic texts of Daily Press Releases, Topical Releases, Major Documents (such as speeches by the President), and National Documents (ie NAFTA & the Declaration of Independance). If you haven't heard the President or Vice President's voice in quite some time, you can also here a welcome message from both of them. Whitehouse Continuing through the Executive Branch is
the President's
cabinet made up of 14 different departments covering all facets of American life. (In the interest of clarity, there
will only be a list with brief comments) Before the enactement of the 20th Amendment in 1933, the new president was not sworn until the March following the election.  This long delay caused problems.  In the "secession winter" after the election of Abraham Lincoln, President James Buchanan watched as secessionists seized federal forts and arsenals.  By March 1861, when Lincoln finally took office, the Civil War was nearly lost before it even began.  Seven decades later, in the
middle of the Great Depression, the lame duck period of president Herbert Hoover seemed far too long.  Hoover and Franklin Roosevelt barely communicated and the country waited for decisive action from its newly chosen leader.  In response, the 20th Amendment was proposed and adopted. Her zest for life and her innate simplicity charmed even the most critical. Stylish clothes--a frugal husband's one indulgence--set off her good looks. After Harding's death, she planned the new administration's social life as her husband wanted it: unpretentious but dignified. Her time and her friendliness now belonged to the nation, and she was generous with both. As she wrote later, she was "I, and yet, not I--this was the wife of the President of the
United States and she took precedence over me...." "Bush really hasn't done much when it comes to breaking down the preconceived notions of Americans as greedy, myopic, pompous cretins..." [Intake of breath]. "The president had never been to Europe before taking office, his disregard for immigrants has been shocking and the lengths he's been willing to go for oil seem
boundless." Curriculum Developers This lesson discusses the idea of government by the consent of the governed, and why such government is the only legitimate kind of government from the point of view of the American Founders. Discussion questions follow the reading. Students will analyze historical evidence including primary sources to understand what it means for a government to operate with the consent of the governed, and why that is important.