Return to APUS Catalog Student Profile The University Systems undergraduate programs are open to all qualified
students. The
student body is comprised of busy, working adults who hold a variety of positions in the national security, public service and corporate sectors. Students typically work full-time while studying online to advance their careers from locations in all 50 states as well as from more than 100 foreign countries.  No accommodations may be made prior to the notification of disability and the submission of documentation. Students must identify themselves to the DSA Officer and provide the required documentation as
outlined in the
Documentation Requirements below at least 30 days in advance of the start of the accommodation
being requested.  It is the students responsibility to ensure that documentation meeting the published requirements is submitted 30 days prior to the start of accommodations. If you are a graduate student, we still need an
official transcript of your Bachelors or higher degree conferred.  If the degree was
conferred by an institution not accredited by a US recognized body, you will need to have a
degree verification
evaluation
completed by an international education agency. Please email for more information. international@apus.edu Accepted Organizations for Evaluation of International Credentials: APUS will accept international transcript evaluation
reports from agencies belonging to any of these organizations: APUS complies with the Americans with Disabilities Act,
Section 504
of the Rehabilitation Act, and state and local requirements regarding students with disabilities. In compliance with federal and state
regulations, reasonable accommodations are provided to qualified students with disabilities. For more information about accommodations for students with disabilities, click or contact us at . here
dsa@apus.edu   Our Admissions staff is available Monday  Friday from 8am  5:00 pm, EST to answer your questions and provide assistance
with the admissions process.  You can reach us by phone at 1-877-777-9081, email us at , or click on the "chat now" icon on any page on this site to correspond instantly during business hoursHave questions? The University System fosters an
environment that
promotes a life of learning for its constituents and uses feedback from its participants and supporters to improve the quality of its teaching, learning, and support.   Learning:   The University System holds a strong commitment to high standards in all aspects of its educational activities, learning outcomes, and support services.  It seeks to
continuously
strengthen
the overall effectiveness of its operations. Quality:   The University System conducts its operations and makes its public representations in an ethical manner.  It assesses its operations in an open
and collaborative manner and practices fairness, honesty, and objectivity in dealing with its constituencies.Integrity: The Major Field Tests are designed to measure the basic student learning outcomes in
these fields
of study.  Also, graduate
degree-seeking students in Business Administration (MBA) are required to take the Major Field Test. The Major Field Tests are designed to measure basic student learning outcomes in these fields of
study. Major Field Tests Read about the that have been utilized at APUS to engage faculty and administrators in the assessment process. strategies to see a graphical representation of the Learning
Outcomes Assessment Program at
APUS. Click here Faculty
members - for assistance in developing your course objectives. The Bachelors degree program is open to students who possess a high school diploma or its equivalent. This minimum 120- to 124-credit-hour
program is the standard four-year
undergraduate degree that most employers want and prepares students for graduate study.Bachelor's Degree AMU offers certificate programs at the undergraduate level to applicants who have a high school
diploma or its
equivalent. Certificate programs allow students to focus on a particular topic of interest through a five- to nine-course program of study. Students choosing certificate programs usually have either an
Associate or Bachelors degree and seek specific knowledge in one subject area. Undergraduate Certificates Students must complete specific undergraduate courses before they graduate from the degree
program. 
Courses may
be completed at APUS or another institution and transferred into APUS.  A list of these
courses will provided in a separate document.Co-requisites and Undergraduate Transcript Review Students should be aware
that a
portfolio
of their
work will be assembled as they complete their degree program.  An electronic portfolio product will be used and purchased through
Foliotek. Within the major courses, students may have an opportunity to specify a concentration which offers a choice of classes within the academic discipline allowing students to focus on specific areas of interest (e.g., Logistics, Terrorism, World War II, Ancient Warfare, etc.).  Finally, each student rounds out the program with electives, which
vary according to the
degree program.General Masters Degree Program Structure    As a student, you will enter your
individual
classrooms from the campus homepage. Inside the classroom, you obtain assignments, write papers, conduct research, take tests and exchange information just like in a traditional class  except its done online. Professors use a variety of teaching methods, including: posting weekly lecture notes, linking to videos and Web sites, providing access to research information, and initiating asynchronous class discussions and group projects. . Take a virtual tour of the classroom What are the Universitys technology
requirements? Essentially, you need access to a computer and an Internet connection. Graduate Catalog These programs are 12-course
programs with a comprehensive examination, thesis option or applied research project at the end of all course work.  Objectives and requirements for each degree program are outlined in the section that follows.  Graduate programs are generally structured in similar fashion. In addition to a required research methodology course, each major consists of core and major courses. Core courses are required and are designed to provide the theoretical underpinning
for future work. Transcripts
from Canadian universities confirming Bachelors or Masters degrees will be accepted for entry into a Master's program if the school is a member of the Association of Canadian Colleges and Universities, if accreditation is shown on the transcript from the Ministry of Education of the province, OR if the school has
been given degree -granting rights by an act of the Canadian legislature. Should include the names of the diagnostic tests used, evaluation dates,
test scores and interpretation of test results. Should describe how the students is limited in functionality in a
major life activity. Should
include specific
accommodation recommendations that are tied to the diagnosis and how the accommodations will impact the
specific functional limitations of the student. WAYS TO SEND YOUR DOCUMENTATION Fax to 304-724-0909 Scan and email to
DSA@apus.edu Mail to APUS  ATTN:  Disability Accommodations  10110 Battleview Parkway Suite 114 Manassas, VA  20109 x ED502 * required before student may register for courses Prepare a short essay of approximately 300 words (one page) describing why you are interested in this particular degree program.  Your sample should preferably be written in Word and double-spaced.  The Education degree coordinator will use your writing sample to assess your written
communications
skills. 
* Writing Sample Two character references are required from people who can attest to your moral and ethical character.  Examples of such people include supervisors, religious leaders, military
commanders, school officials, or others who know you well and can provide credible information about you. He served at the Pentagon as part of the Joint Staff in support of Noble Eagle and Enduring
Freedom. There werent many schools that had national security programs available, says Russo about his college search in
early 2003. AMU was perfect
for me. He
began his studies in December 2003, taking a full-time course load until
he completed
his program in August 2007, despite working more than 40 hours a week as a defense contractor. Russo says that he
couldnt
have done it without the support and motivation he received from family, friends and co-workers. AMU offered all of its
programs exclusively through distance learning.  At that time, it was one of the first American degree-granting institutions
operating exclusively at a distance.  This method was adopted to
accommodate the special needs of military students who moved often and served under uncertain conditions associated with training, exercises, and extended deployments.  Distance learning allowed them the flexibility and accessibility to continue their studies under these demanding conditions with an institution that followed them 24/7 through mail,
email, phone, and fax around the globe. If you are applying to a graduate-level program, you must submit the following documents: Official transcript showing you have earned a Bachelor's degree from
an institution accredited by a recognized accrediting body. If you have earned a Master's or doctoral degree from an
accredited institution, submit the official advanced degree transcript in
lieu of an undergraduate degree transcript. If you earned graduate-level credit without completing the degree and want to have it evaluated for transfer, submit official transcripts of this coursework along with the Transfer Credit Evaluation
(TCE) application and fee.  for full instructions on TCE submission.