We are a licensed and insured
dealer and
wholesaler that can also buy scrap metal.
Bring in your scraps by the truck or by the piece and we will pay you the most competitive rates in the area. You can pull the auto parts yourself or let our experienced mechanics pull the parts for you. VEHICLE DISPOSAL   With two distinct operations, Car Transplants based in Cheshire are ideally placed to provide everything you need to get a quality car on the road at the lowest possible cost. Our contracts with the leading insurance companies means we have a constant supply of salvage cars of all descriptions and in all conditions. Vehicles with only superficial or moderate damage are sold as . Vehicles which can't be made roadworthy are dismantled in our scrap yard for . Our car breakers operation processes over 10,000 vehicles a year, dismantling each one for all the usable cars parts. From the internal engine parts to the exterior car body parts.
damaged repairable vehicles spare parts Cars parts are removed and stored in our auto parts warehouse for immediate sale.     The TC Midgets were the big sellers in the post-war era, establishing the marque'5 reputation in the crucial US market,
setting the stage for the MGA and its successor the MGB of 1962. By the late 1960s, however, MG had fallen victim to corporate  politics, as other cars from the British Motor Holdings (later British Leyland) stable took precedence over the MG product. Yet this is by no means the end of the story: in the early 1990s the Rover Group made the welcome decision to revive the MG as a sports car; fifteen years after the last MGB rolled off the production line. The new K-series engined MGF heralds the
marque's jubilant comeback.   Forget the
old image of the traditional breakers yard. Here at Car Transplants you will find clean, modern premises with good facilities and most importantly ATTENTIVE KNOWLEDGEABLE STAFF. Car Transplants Motor Spares Chester Road (A51) Hurleston, Nantwich,
Cheshire, CW5
6BU Tel: 01270 627919 or 626266 Fax: 01270 625464 Email: OPENING HOURS 9:00am - 6:00pm 9:00am - 5:00pm closed (closed bank holidays) Mondays to Fridays It is an offence not to register if your business meets one or more of the following criteria, your business is engaged;- Wholly or partly in the recovery for re-use or sale of salvageable parts from motor vehicles and the subsequent sale or other disposal for scrap of the remainder of the vehicle concerned Wholly or mainly in the purchase of
written-off vehicles and their subsequent repair and re-sale Wholly or mainly in the sale or purchase of motor vehicles which are to be the subject (whether immediately or on subsequent re-sale) of any of the activities falling within a) or b) and Canada) sales annually - plays a necessary and crucial role in the efficient,
ecological disposal of inoperable motor vehicles. Although sometimes known as auto salvage dealers, professional automotive recyclers deal strictly in the recycling of motor vehicles - i.e., domestic and foreign
automobiles, light and heavy-duty
trucks, buses and motorcycles. Automotive
recycling serves a vital
role in preserving natural resources and reducing the demand for scarce landfill space. For example, each year approximately 95 percent of vehicles retired from use are processed for recycling. The recycling of these vehicles saves an estimated 85 million barrels of oil that would have been used in the manufacturing of new or replacement parts. Additional energy and resource conservation is realized by recycling rebuildable "core" parts to the automotive parts rebuilding industry. In addition to conserving natural
resources, automotive recycling plays an important role in reducing air and water pollution, and solid waste generation. Automotive recyclers must abide by stringent local and national regulations on dealing with waste generated by salvaged automobiles. How will my local garage service or repair a car as unusual and specialised as a Quantum? Although your local garage may not have seen a Quantum before, a look under the bonnet, together with a brief explanation from yourself, will quickly give your mechanic his bearings. The car will be serviced exactly as the 'parent' Ford would be. How can I get a
finish like the demonstrators at the factory if I have standard gelcoat bodywork? The inside surfaces of the Quantum moulds are polished to a mirror finish, hence the components produced are of such high quality. A Man On A Mission I love MG cars. I own three and therein lies the problem. One is for parts, a 1968 MG Roadster, the second car is a 1968 MGBGT, it’s disassembled and sitting in the covered safety of my brothers garage in Idaho where the rust Gods can’t find it. The parts car is for it, and for a soon to be designed “boot” couch. The third car is a 1972 MG Midget that is the priority car to get restored. I’ve owned one or
more of the cars since 1987. The MGBGT was my daily driver until I found the rust and the bad repairs. I tore it apart only to find that life, my wife & kids, and a gazillion other priorities got in the way of restoration. The
Midget has a similar story, not running when I found it, sound, minimal rust and none where it mattered. For all popular imports such as Nissan Skyline R32, R33 and R34, Nissan 180SX, Nissan 300ZX etc it is very easy
to get new and used parts. Our local Nissan Dealer is incredibly
friendly and will bend over backwards to give advice and order parts. I can also get anything second hand as I have many
contacts that import container
loads of half cuts, engines and body panels
etc. As far as Toyota parts go, they are also very helpful but I have found that a new Toyota Part is approx 30% more expensive than a comparable new Nissan part and they don't stock anywhere near the amount of new
parts on the shelf as Nissan does. Having said that, if the vehicle has been imported for a few years like the Toyota Supra or Soarer, the parts are more available new and more importantly, second hand. The Audi A4 Supertouring that won the 1996 British Touring Car Championship (BTTC) will also be on the line-up, and will be driven by it’s former driver Frank
Biela who also won Le Mans 24 Hours five times. Another Audi section
will be present at
Goodwood’s Festival of Speed, Audi
Sport will exhibiting the Audi
R10, winner of this year’s Le Mans 24 Hours. 1 Comment » Auto Union “Silverarrow” Type D at Goodwood Festival of speed… Audi has a big surprise for this years Festival of Speed at Goodwood, for those of you that are not familiar the Goodwoods Festival of Speed is the biggest classic car racing event in the world. This year
Audi will debut the reconstruction of a c… As a family owned business operating for over 30 years, Car Transplants have chosen to be at the forefront of clean car recycling and disposal. One of our main aims has always been to dispose of the old image of the car breakers yard or all-purpose scrap yard. When you visit us, you'll find a modern, computerised warehouse operation where cars parts are handed to you by experienced staff. No more scrambling round a bleak scrap yard, trying to find and rip out
the spare
parts you want from rusting wrecks! Car Transplants now enjoys an enviable reputation for both quality and service and believes itself to be the market leader in the North West of England. As one of the UK's largest dismantlers of late model vehicles direct from insurance companies Car Transplants are definitely worth a call. It was not a success and the company was taken over by Qvale, well-known American car family with deep historical MG connections. They transformed the car into the rather ungainly styled Qvale Mangusta, which was also not a success. In 2002 MG Rover was the surprise buyer
of the remaining assets and from this the
far better looking MG
SV, styled by
the world renowned designed Peter Stevens. The SV is built on a lightweight steel
chassis, which has integral roll over bar protection, built to FIA standards. The chassis is clothed in a very lightweight and advanced carbon fibre body that is made up from over 3000 separate pieces of carbon fibre material. Saves an estimated 85 million barrels of oil a year, that would have been used in the manufacturing of new or replacement parts. Automotive recyclers spent nearly $50 million on environmental compliance in 1997. Automotive recycling decreases insurance
rates by purchasing inoperative vehicles from insurance companies, thus allowing for recovery of financial losses. These vehicles came primarily from individual owners and salvage auctions. Automotive recycling keeps highways and roads clear of abandoned and disabled vehicles by providing a place to deposit these vehicles. The chassis, made in Italy, is fully built up before the body is attached, then the mechanically complete cars are finished in the UK. The engine remains the same 4.6 litre all alloy V8 engines with twin cams per bank and four valves per cylinder that delivers 320bhp in base SV format. However, 5.0 litre 380 bhp versions were fitted to the SVR. The gearbox was a 5 speed manual, with only a couple of automatic
versions made. Introduced 2004 to 2005 Approx 50 models made The MG SV was the pet project of the MG Rover senior management to create a halo model for the modern MG range. It was a
complete departure from all previous model MGs with the only possible comparable model being the 1930 K3 Magnette. The project was of questionable value to the company or MG sales and was priced between 65,000 and 85,000 UK pounds, and certainly diverted resources that could have been focussed on more profitable mainstream models. The discussion surrounding all aspects of this model will be sure to be a long term MG discussion point. The cars was a 2 seat closed coupe of considerable performance
and technological content, developed from the Qvale Mangusta, which in turn was developed from the De Tomaso Bigua. De Tomaso being a well-known Italian carmaker who with models like the Pantera exploited the well proven route of smaller coach built and efficient European body powered by a big lazy American V8. ENGINE LOCATOR If you are a supplier of Japanese engines, import engines, German engines or Domestic / American engines, please consider joining our network. Simply with us or visit our . Register Engine Hotline WE ARE READY TO
HELP YOU FIND YOUR CAR / TRUCK / PICKUP ENGINE! TO FIND YOUR ENGINE! CLICK HERE Buy direct from the engine supplier that stocks the engines and save the middleman markup you'll pay otherwise Connect to hundreds of auto n' truck used & surplus engines sellers with just one search Find the engine you need at the price you want without wasting hours searching the Web and submitting multiple requests Save phone calls cost1. 2.