Prence
William Brewster, Organizer of the Mayflower Voyage
illiam Brewster, b. 1567, d. Apr. 10, 1644, was a leader of the Pilgrims, who established Plymouth Colony. In England he studied briefly at Cambridge, the only Pilgrim Father to have some university training. A member of the local gentry in Scrooby, Yorkshire, he helped organize a separatist religious congregation in 1606 and financed its move to Holland in 1608. His influence with the Crown was instrumental in winning the approval of the Virginia Company for the proposal to resettle the congregation in America, and he was one of the few original Scrooby separatists who sailed on the Mayflower in 1620. As the church's ruling elder in Leyden and then in Plymouth, Brewster shared with William Bradford and Edward Winslow in the leadership of the Pilgrim enterprise.W
The Mayflower Compact
s the ruling elder and only university trained passenger on the Mayflower, it is likely that William Brewster drafted the Mayflower Compact, the first constitution written and adopted in North America. The following is the text of the Compact:A
In the name of God, Amen. We, whose names are underwritten, the Loyal Subjects of our dread Sovereigne Lord, King James, by the Grace of God, of Great Britaine, France, and Ireland, King, Defender of the Faith, &c.
Having undertaken for the Glory of God, and Advancement of the Christian Faith, and the Honour of our King and Country, a Voyage to plant the first colony in the Northerne Parts of Virginia; doe, by these Presents, solemnly and mutually in the Presence of God and one of another, covenant and combine ourselves together into a civill Body Politick, for our better Ordering and Preservation, and Furtherance of the Ends aforesaid; And by Virtue hereof do enact, constitute, and frame, such just and equall Laws, Ordinances, Acts, Constitutions, and Offices, from time to time, as shall be thought most meete and convenient for the Generall Good of the Colonie; unto which we promise all due Submission and Obedience.
In Witness whereof we have hereunto subscribed our names at Cape Cod the eleventh of November, in the Raigne of our Sovereigne Lord, King James of England, France, and Ireland, the eighteenth, and of Scotland, the fiftie-fourth, Anno. Domini, 1620.
Mr. John Carver           Mr. Stephen Hopkins Mr. William Bradford      Digery Priest Mr. Edward Winslow        Thomas Williams Mr. William Brewster      Gilbert Winslow Isaac Allerton            Edmund Margesson Miles Standish            Peter Brown John Alden                Richard Bitteridge John Turner               George Soule Francis Eaton             Edward Tilly James Chilton             John Tilly John Craxton              Francis Cooke John Billington           Thomas Rogers Joses Fletcher            Thomas Tinker John Goodman              John Ridgate Mr. Samuel Fuller         Edward Fuller Mr. Christopher Martin    Richard Clark Mr. William Mullins       Richard Gardiner Mr. William White         Mr. John Allerton Mr. Richard Warren        Thomas English John Howland              Edward Doten Edward Liester
My Brewster Ancestry
Ina Gertrude Johnson m. Earvin Elroy Murrah
Florence Ophelia Largent m. Franklin John Johnson
Malcom David Largent m. Eliza Azalee Spears
Thomas Wayne Largent m. Talitha Maria Freeman
David Barss Freeman m. Talitha T. Thompson
James Freeman m. Hannah Barss
Samuel Freeman m. Mary Mayo
Thomas Freeman, Jr. m. Mary Smith
Deacon Thomas Freeman m. Rebecca Sparrow
Major John Freeman m. Mercy Mary Prence
Patience Brewster m. Governor Thomas Prence
Elder William Brewster (of the Mayflower) m. Mary _____
John William Brewster m. Mary Smythe-Simkinson
William Brewster m. Maude Man
William Brewster m. Prudence Perkins
Famous Brewster Descendants