Translating to/from Brazilian Portuguese and English or Spanish 
has never been faster, easier or more accurate!is simply the most accurate, flexible, sophisticated and easiest to use and machine translation software available in the world today. Discover for yourself how can help you learn, understand and communicate better in Brazilian Portuguese than any "free" Internet translator or commercial translation software program available anywhere in the world! Delta Translator English< >Brazilian Portuguese Spanish< >Brazilian Portuguese Delta Translator
Brazilian States, Abbreviations & Information| | Delta Translator Home
⊃2;For political administration, Brazil's 26 statesnd the Federal District (Distrito Federal, Brasília)re divided into . The name of each of the Brazilian states below is preceded by its commonly used two letter abbreviation. The chart also includes the state's capitol city, its size in km five different regions (square kilometers),  2007 population (the latest available), percentage of urban and rural population, number of municipal districts (cities), per capita GNP and projected life expectancy (the latest available). For the specific location of each individual state within Brazil, click the or see the . state's region political map of Brazil
You may also view each state's flag by clicking on the state's name (or the Federal District) below or view the Brazilian flag together with information about it.  Close any flag or map window you've opened by clicking the in the upper right corner of the window. A list of all the (together with their Portuguese translation [if any] and common two letter abbreviation) is also available on our web site. Also see other state related information:   |   | (including local/regional newspapers) |   |   |X states of the United States Today's Weather Forecast for Brazil Current Time in Brasília Brazilian Media Resources Brazilian Currency Currency Converter Brazil Travel Tips & Information
Click the "Correios" logo to look up Brazilian CEPs (zip codes).
look up telephone numbers in Brazil
BR