Go to Store
In a recent segment on her show, Martha Stewart used one of the fine JAX Patina Solutions to darken some polished brass. It is our understanding that she used the JAX Brown-Black product for brass/bronze/copper. However, there are a total of five products that work extremely well on brass, bronze, and copper. They are: BROWN, BROWN-BLACK, GREY-BLACK, and BLACK, in the instant darkening family of oxidizers and GREEN PATINA, as an "air-dry" product (that is, it takes longer to see the true effects of the product). Oxidizers are amazing products, but there is as much art as there is science in using them. Variables such as temperature, humidity, cleanliness of the items being oxidized, technique, etc. will all effect the final outcome. It is not like paint!! Consistency can be achieved with some practice and by using the same technique on the same material. One of the real joys of patination, however, is the variability in the final product. Naturally oxidized items (weather vanes, copper roofs, door knobs, etc., etc.) are prized for their variagated finish and individually unique look. These effects can be achieved with liquid patina solutions, but if you want a uniform finish, better to try faux patina paints. Because of this inherent variability, there are no "color charts" for the JAX oxidizers. But we can say that within reason, the name on the bottle fairly represents the color of the final finish when the products are used properly. Jax orders are normally shipped via UPS ground. Many Jax products contain mild acids and are considered hazardous under certain Department of Transportation regulations (49 CFR). As a result, UPS charges $20 for each package containing hazardous materials, regardless of quantity, in addition to the normal UPS shipping rate. Therefore, the hazardous material charge is the same for one pint and one 5-gallon container. On the upside, though, you can get as many as 12 pints or 4 gallons in a single box, thus significantly reducing the "per bottle" HAZMAT fee. (Hazardous materials cannot be shipped by the United States Postal Service and cannot be shipped to a post office box.) If the shipping surcharges are prohibitively high for you and your particular project, please contact us and we will try to help you find a local reseller of the JAX line of products. Back to News
Martha Stewart and JAX on TV. (April 2007)
[Jax Products that are considered hazardous are denoted with an asterisk in our literature.]
© 2005-2007 METALLIFEROUS INC  |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |    |  site design by