Patch of the Delaware State Police.
Agency Overview
642 (as of 2004) [3]
Civilians
205 (as of 2004) [4]
Agency executive
Thomas F. Mac Leish, Colonel
Facilities
Footnotes
Division of the country, over which the agency has usual operational jurisdiction. Divisional agency:
The () is a division of the Delaware Department of Public Safety and Homeland Security and is responsible for traffic regulation and law enforcement across the state of , especially in areas underserved by local police departments. The DSP is headquartered in the capital .Delaware State PoliceDSP Delaware Dover, Delaware
Contents
[] edit Mission statement
"To enhance the quality of life for all Delaware citizens and visitors by providing professional, competent and compassionate law enforcement services".
[] edit History
Before the Delaware State Police was formed in 1923, the first traffic law enforcement officers were called the "Highway Traffic Police". Started in 1919, the HTP consisted of one officer whose sole function was to patrol the Philadelphia Pike near Wilmington. In the following year the force was increased to three men and three motorcycles. From 1920 to 1923 these men served directly under the State Highway Commission. Prior to the formation of state police the areas between unincorported districts were served by the county sheriff department.
Thoughts on the topic of forming a State Police organization for the First State had been recorded as early as 1906. Although interest existed, little, if any, positive steps were taken until the State Highway Commission was formed in 1917. As construction of paved highways was begun and registered motor vehicles began to rise, a need to regulate and maintain safety soon became apparent. On April 23, 1923, the General Assembly, at the request of the State Highway Department, enacted two laws that created the Delaware State Police. This date marks the official organization of the present law enforcement organization.
[] edit Present-day DSP
Currently, the DSP operates out of eight barracks known as "troops", not including the headquarters. Each county has one troop that is shared between patrol (Uniformed) and detective (CIU) units. In New Castle County the shared troop is Troop 2 in , in Kent County, Troop 3 at , and in Sussex County, Troop 4 in . In addition, New Castle County also has three "uniformed" troops, Troop 1 located at Penny Hill (near ), Troop 6 at Price's Corner (near ) and Troop 9 in . A sub-station of Troop 1 is located on the grounds of the Brandywine Town Center in the Brandywine Hundred section of New Castle County. Sussex County has two "Uniformed" troops, Troop 7, located in , and Troop 5, located in . Bear Woodside Georgetown Claymont Elsmere Odessa Lewes Bridgeville
The DSP also operates several special units/locations around the state, including aviation units in Georgetown and Middletown, and a weigh station on U.S. Rt. 13 at Blackbird.
In Kent and Sussex Counties, the Delaware State Police serve as the primary law-enforcement agency for the majority of the county, having primary jurisdiction in all areas not in incorporated municipalities, along with smaller municipalities without their own law enforcement agency. In New Castle County the Delaware State Police has primary jurisdiction over commercial areas and state and federal highways, including . The New Castle County Police have primary jurisdiction in other areas not contained within municipalities. Note: The 1974 jurisdictional agreement between D.S.P. and N.C.C.P. states County Police investigates complaints in sub-divisions and some commercial areas located on county roads. Delaware State Police investigates all calls including residences located on state roads and highways including commercial areas. In an emergency, the closest officer or Trooper will respond no matter where the complaint originates from. Also, some municipalities in New Castle County contract D.S.P. for police services. Interesting fact, most roads in Delaware are state owned and maintained, therefore in State Police jurisdiction. I-95
Additionally, the Delaware State Police also provides dispatching services to municipal agencies which do not have their own dispatch desk in all three counties; New Castle County Police and several of the larger cities in the state provide their own dispatch services.
[] edit Units/Sections
Like other state police agencies, the Delaware State Police has several sub-divisions specializing in addressing particular crimes or security needs.
List of Units/Sections