Holiday Inn Anaheim-Resort Area, Ca
1915 S. Manchester Ave Anaheim, CA 92802Holiday Inn Anaheim-Resort Area, Ca
3 Star
Property Description
The Holiday Inn Anaheim Resort is located in the heart of Anaheim, just minutes from Disneyland, is a full service hotel with 264 guestrooms, including upgraded executive king rooms. The Holiday Inn Anaheim Resort also offers free wireless high-speed Internet throughout the hotel, including in the Pacifica Ballroom, ideal for meetings and social functions. The Holiday Inn Anaheim Resort sells Disneyland Tickets in the Disneyland Resort. Located just 1 mile from the Anaheim Convention Center. Other entertainment venues include: Anaheim Stadium/Honda Center, the Home of the Anaheim Angels, just 1 mile from the Holiday Inn Anaheim Resort, Downtown Disney and Disney's California Adventure. Also close to the Holiday Inn Anaheim Resort is the Anaheim Pond, home of the Mighty Ducks. The perfect hotel for a Disneyland vacation. We offer all day dining in our American Brasserie Restaurant, and drinks in our lounge (with a pool table and darts) and pool side drinks and dining from the Cabana Bar (seasonal). Located just 4 blocks from the hotel is the Block & Garden Walk, offering movie theatres, several restaurants and shopping options. The newest Holiday Inn in Anaheim, built in 2001. A full service hotel with friendly amenities of a resort! This hotel is committed to providing accessible facilities under the American Disabilities Act. If your accessibility needs are not met, please contact the Hotel Manager on Duty. Should you require additional information regarding accessible facilities for guests with disabilities, please call 1-800-Holiday (U.S. and Canada) or contact the hotel directly. For the hearing impaired, TDD service is available at 1-800-238-5544 within the U.S. and Canada.
Amenities · Americans with Disabilities ACT ADA Compliant · Air Conditioned · AM/FM Alarm Clock · ATM/Cash Machine · Bar/Lounge · Bath Tub · Business Center · Coffee Maker in Room · Concierge Desk · Copy Service · 24 Hour Front Desk · Email Service · FAX · Fire Alarm with Light · Gift Shop · Golf · Exercise Gym · Hairdryers Available · Ice Machine · High speed internet access · Iron · Guest Laundromat · Modem Lines in Room · Modem Lines in Room · Multilingual · Free Newspaper · Public Address System · Phone with speaker · Pool · Outdoor Pool · Parking · Radio · Restaurant · Room Service · Safe Deposit Box · Safe · Security · Sprinklers In Rooms · Outdoor Tennis · Turndown Service · Television with Cable · TV Remote Control · Satellite TV · Laundry/Valet Services · Vending Machines · Wake-up Service
Miscellaneous Information
· Check in time is 1500 · Check out time is 1200 · Time Zone is GMT-8 · 264 rooms. · 0 suites. · 9 floors.
Guarantee Policy
Credit Card Guarantee Required For All Arrivals - Deposit May Be Required During Special Events
Cancellation Policy
Cancellation policies vary by hotel. Since a hotel can set a cancellation policy up to 30 days prior to arrival, please review rate rules prior to booking to avoid possible charges.
Area Attractions