Most recent monthly bank/asset statements
Most recent W-2 Form(s)
Copy of the purchase and sale agreement (if applicable)
Photo Id(s)
For employed in sales, paid by commission, or owners of rental real estate:self employed borrowers,
Signed personal Federal tax returns - including all schedules
Most recent monthly bank/asset statements
Most recent W-2 Form(s)
Copy of the purchase and sale agreement (if applicable)
Photo Id(s)
Different programs require varying amounts of documentation. The loan program you select may require more or less documentation. Please for a free, no-obligation consultation. contact us
Credit Reports
FICO® scores are the numerical summary of yourcredit rating.
They range from 300-850,higher is better!
Higher scores can meanlower interest rates.
FICO® scores are calculated based on your rating in :five general categories
Payment history - 35%
Length of credit history - 15%
New credit - 10%
Types of credit used - 10%
 
Improving your FICO® credit score
It's important to note that raising your FICO credit score is a bit like losing weight: It takes time and there is no quick fix. In fact, quick-fix efforts can backfire. The best advice is to manage credit responsibly over time.
Payment History Tips
Delinquent payments and collections can have a negative impact on your FICO score. However, keep in mind that most bills will not be shown as 'late' on your credit report until they are over 30 days past due. If you are behind make sure to pay within the 30 day period.Pay your bills on time!
major
The longer you pay your bills on time, the better your credit score.If you have missed payments, get current and stay current.
It will stay on your report for seven years. Also, if you are applying for a loan soon, it may be best to wait to pay off an old collection account (as updating an old derogatory account, even by paying it off, can hurt your score in the short run).Be aware that paying off a collection account will not remove it from your credit report.
This won't improve your credit score immediately, but if you can begin to manage your credit and pay on time, your score will get better over time.If you are having trouble making ends meet, contact your creditors or see a legitimate credit counselor.
Amounts Owed Tips
High outstanding debt can adversely affect a credit score. Ideally, you want your credit balances to be 1/3 or less of your high limit. If your balances are over 50% of your credit limit your score will certainly suffer.Keep balances low and credit limits high on credit cards and other revolving debts.
close unused credit cards as a short-term strategy to raise your score.Don't
Length of Credit History Tips
New accounts will lower your average account age, which will have a larger effect on your score if you don't have a lot of other credit information. Also, rapid account buildup can look risky if you are a new credit user.If you have been managing credit for a short time, don't open a lot of new accounts too rapidly.
New Credit Tips
FICO scores distinguish between a search for a single loan and a search for many new credit lines, in part by the length of time over which inquiries occur. If you are shopping for a large ticket item like a home mortgage multiple credit inquires within a 2-4 week period will be counted as only one inquiry. Don't be fooled by uniformed (or intentionally misleading) lenders that tell you not to allow others lenders to pull your credit because it will 'hurt your score.'Do your rate shopping for a given loan within a focused period of time.
Opening new accounts responsibly and paying them off on time will raise your credit score in the long term.Re-establish your credit history if you have had problems.
This won't affect your score, as long as you order your credit report directly from the credit reporting agency or through an organization authorized to provide credit reports to consumers.Note that it's OK to request and check your own credit report.
Types of Credit Use Tips
  In general, having credit cards and installment loans (and paying timely payments) will raise your credit score. Someone with no credit cards, for example, tends to be viewed as a higher risk than someone who has managed credit cards responsibly.Have credit cards - but manage them responsibly.
A closed account will still show up on your credit report, and may be considered by the score.Note that closing an account doesn't make it go away.
Back to Top
Appraisal Basics
The appraiser researches the market to arrive at a value estimate. As the appraiser compiles data pertinent to a report, consideration must be given to the site and amenities as well as the physical condition of the property. Considerable research and collection of data must be completed prior to the appraiser arriving at a final opinion of value.
There are three common approaches to arriving at an estimate of value. The first approach to value is the . This method derives what it would cost to replace the existing improvements as of the date of the appraisal, less any physical deterioration, functional obsolescence, and economic obsolescence. The second method is the , which uses other 'bench mark' properties (comps) of similar size, quality and location that have recently sold to determine value. The is used in the appraisal of rental properties and has little use in the valuation of single family dwellings. This approach provides an objective estimate of what a prudent investor would pay based on the net income the property produces. The comparison approach is most often used in conventional mortgage lending.COST APPROACHCOMPARISON APPROACHINCOME APPROACH
Back to Top
Underwriting
Once the processor has put together a complete package, the file is sent to the underwriter. The underwriter is responsible for determining whether the package is deemed an acceptable loan. If more information is needed, the loan is put into 'suspense' and the borrower is contacted to supply more information and/or documentation. If the loan is acceptable as submitted, the loan is put into an 'approved' status.
Back to Top
Closing
Once the loan is approved, the file is transferred to the closing department. The closing department notifies the closing attorney of the approval and verifies all closing expenses. The closing attorney then schedules a time for the borrower to sign the loan documentation.
At the closing the borrower should:
Bring a cashiers check for your down payment and closing costs (made payable to you to be signed over at the closing). Personal checks are normally not accepted over certain limits (usually $1000).
Review the final loan documents. Make sure that the interest rate and loan terms are what you agreed upon. Also, verify that the names and address on the loan documents are accurate.
Sign the loan documents.