[] edit Plot summary
Mary Lennox is a sickly, sour-faced little girl born in to wealthy British parents who have very little interest in her, leaving her in the care of an from birth. Orphaned by an outbreak of , she is sent back to England to the legal guardianship of her only remaining relative: her father's brother-in-law, Archibald Craven, a reclusive widower. India Ayah cholera
Craven still mourns the death of his wife, Lilias, from ten years ago. To escape his sad memories, he constantly travels abroad, leaving Mary and the under the supervision of his , Mrs. Medlock. The only person who has any time for the little girl is the Martha Sowerby, who tells Mary about a walled garden that was the late Mrs. Craven's favorite. No one has entered the garden since she died because Archibald locked its entrance and buried the key in an unknown location. manor housekeeper chambermaid
Mary finds the key to the secret garden and a shows her where the door is hidden beneath overgrown ivy. Once inside, she discovers that although the roses seem lifeless, some of the other flowers have survived. She resolves to tend the garden herself. Although she wants to keep it a secret, she recruits Martha's brother Dickon, who has a way with plants and wild animals. Mary gives him money to buy gardening implements and he shows her that the roses, though neglected, are not dead. When Mary's uncle briefly meets with her for the first time since her arrival, Mary asks him for permission to claim her own garden from any abandoned part of the grounds, and he acquiesces. Thanks to her new-found interests and activities, Mary herself begins to blossom, losing her sickly look and unpleasant manner. robin
On several occasions, Mary hears someone weeping in another part of the house. When she asks questions, the servants become evasive. They tell her that she is hearing things, or they blame the sound on ordinary sources such as the wind, or a servant with a toothache. Shortly after her uncle's visit, she goes exploring and discovers her uncle's son, Colin, a lonely, bedridden boy as petulant and disagreeable as Mary used to be. His father shuns him because the child closely resembles his mother. Mr. Craven is a mild , and both he and Colin are morbidly convinced that the boy will develop the same condition. The servants have been keeping Mary and Colin a secret from one another because Colin doesn't like strangers staring at him and is prone to terrible tantrums. hunch back
Colin accepts Mary and insists on her visiting him often, but as spring approaches, Colin becomes jealous that Mary is spending more time out in the garden with Dickon. One day, Colin threatens to ban Dickon from the grounds, but Mary matches his bad temper and storms out without an apology. That evening, Colin escalates into a tantrum, convinced that he is becoming hunchbacked and is going to die; Mary shocks him out of his hysteria by screaming back at him. She also demands to see his back, and points out that the lumps behind his neck are simply the outlines of normal like her own. Reassured, Colin agrees to let her bring Dickon to visit him inside his room, and they become friends. hysterical vertebrae
They bring Colin outside in a wheelchair so he can see his mother's garden. Delighted, he visits it with Mary and Dickon whenever the weather allows, ordering everyone else to stay away on those occasions. Despite these orders, the children are discovered by the old gardener Ben Weatherstaff, who tried to maintain the roses after Lilias' death by surreptitiously scaling the wall once or twice a year. Ben is angry with them at first, but agrees to share and keep their secret.
As the garden revives and flourishes, so does Colin. He resolves to walk and run like a normal boy by the next time his father returns home; to accomplish these aims, he carries out a program of simple physical exercises and positive thinking. He makes great progress, but they conceal it from the rest of the household with the pretense that he is still an invalid.
Mr. Craven is traveling through Europe, but is inspired to rush home after hearing the voice of his dead wife in a dream and receiving a letter from Mrs. Sowerby (Martha's and Dickon's mother, who also knows the secret) telling him, "I think your lady would ask you to come if she was here." He arrives while the children are outdoors and finds himself drawn toward the secret garden. As he approaches nearer, he is astonished to hear their voices inside the walls; Colin bursts out of the garden door toward him, actually winning a footrace against Mary and Dickon. They take Mr. Craven into the secret garden to tell him everything. When they return to the house, the servants are astonished to see two miracles: Colin walking and his father looking happy again.
[] edit Major themes
The author, Frances Hodgson Burnett, was a practitioner of due to the premature death of her son as well as personal illness. As a result, espouses the concepts of and as well as ideas about the healing powers of the mind. Christian Science [2] The Secret Garden New Thought theosophy [3]
The garden is the book's central symbol. The secret garden at Misselthwaite Manor is the site of both the near-destruction and the subsequent regeneration of a family. Using the garden motif, Burnett explores the healing power inherent in living things. [4]
Maytham Hall in , where Burnett lived for a number of years during her marriage to Stephen Townesend, is often cited as the inspiration for the book's setting. Burnett kept an extensive garden, including an impressive rose garden. However, it has been noted that besides the garden, Maytham Hall and Misselthwaite Manor are physically very different. Kent, England [5] [6]
[] edit Publication history
was first serialized, starting in autumn 1910, in , a publication aimed at adults. The entire book was first published in summer 1911 by Frederick A. Stokes in New York and by in London. Its expired in the US in 1987 and in most other parts of the world in 1995, placing the book in the .The Secret Garden The American Magazine Heinemann copyright public domain
[] edit Public reception
Marketing to both adult and juvenile audiences may have had an effect on its early reception; the book was not as celebrated as Burnett's previous works during her lifetime. [7]
paled in comparison to the popularity of Burnett's other works for a long period. Tracing the book's revival from almost complete eclipse at the time of Burnett's death in 1924, Anne H. Lundin noted that the author's obituary notices all remarked on and passed over in silence.The Secret Garden [8] Little Lord Fauntleroy The Secret Garden
With the rise of scholarly work in children's literature over the past quarter-century, has steadily risen to prominence, and is now arguably Burnett's best-known work. The book is often noted as one of the best children's books of the twentieth centuryThe Secret Garden [9]
[] edit Dramatic adaptations
has been adapted many times for other media. The following list is non-exhaustive and omits various items in audio and print format such as , , , and random derived works such as and . The appendices of the book's contain a more comprehensive analysis of the book's many transformations.The Secret Garden audiobooks radio plays abridged storybooks cookbooks paper dolls Norton Critical Edition
[] edit Films
The first filmed version was made in 1919 by the with 17 year old as Mary and as Dickon, but the film is considered lost. Famous Players-Lasky Corporation Lila Lee Paul Willis
In 1949, filmed with . This version was mostly in black-and-white, but the sequences set in the restored garden were filmed in . MGM the second adaptation Margaret O'Brien Technicolor
[] edit Television
adapted the book into several different television serials for the BBC: an eight-part serial in 1952, a six-part serial in 1960 (starring as Dickon), and a three-part serial in 1975. Dorothea Brooking Colin Spaull
In 1987, filmed a TV adaptation of the novel starring as Mary, as Dickon, and as Colin. plays the role of Archibald Craven, with appearing in flashbacks and visions as Lilias; a young also makes a brief appearance as the adult Colin Craven. Hallmark Hall of Fame Gennie James Barret Oliver Jadrien Steele Derek Jacobi Alison Doody Colin Firth
[] edit Stage
Stage adaptations of the book have also been created. is a with music by and book and lyrics by , which opened on in 1991. The production was nominated for seven , winning Best Book of a Musical and Best Featured Actress in a Musical ( as Mary, at eleven years old is the youngest person ever to win a Tony). One notable adaptation musical Lucy Simon Marsha Norman Broadway Tony Awards Daisy Eagan
In 2007 the commissioned April-Dawn Gladu to create an adaptation for their Theater For Young Audiences series. This version's unique qualities include an actress silently playing The Garden Tree, which was the tree that Lilias fell from years ago. As the children work secretly in the garden to bring it to life, the living tree wakes up, flourishes and blooms. Orlando Shakespeare Theater [10]
Oakland Ballet has produced set to music by Sir Edward Elgar.The Secret Garden [11]
has also been made into an opera by Clover Loehr & Conan McLemore, and will be presented by Northwest Children's Opera in June of 2009.The Secret Garden
In 1991, a version of was made, entitled . Japanese animated The Secret Garden Himitsu no Hanazono [12]
As part of the "ABC Weekend Special" series, another animated version was made in 1995, with as the voice of Archibald Craven. Derek Jacobi
Another anime movie, (2006), based on another Frances Hodgson Burnett novel, , draws some elements from , mostly the names of Colin, Mary, Martha and Dickon. S k no Strain A Little Princess The Secret Garden [13]
[] edit Written works
's 1949 novel (U.S. title ) has as its central story the filming of in Hollywood. A novel about the adult lives of Mary, Colin, and Dickon was written by in 1995 and published under two different titles: and . The also published a brief parodic sequel in 1995. A different sequel novel, , was written by Susan Webb and published in 1998. Noel Streatfeild The Painted GardenMovie ShoesThe Secret Garden Susan Moody Misselthwaite: The Sequel to the Secret GardenReturn to the Secret Garden New York Times [14] Till All the Seas Run Dry
[] edit Dramatic media
A 2000 sequel entitled was directed by and won the Director's Gold Award at the 2001 Santa Clarita International Film Festival.Return to the Secret Garden Scott Featherstone [15] [16]
In 2001, the , directed by Michael Tuchner, shows Mary and Colin as married adults who have made Craven Manor into a shelter for orphans. It starred as Martha and as Will Weatherstaff (a younger relative of Ben Weatherstaff), with as an American orphan, Lizzie. TV movie Back to the Secret Garden Joan Plowright George Baker Camilla Belle [17]