 
 
On first sight, Range Rover Sport's powerful stance and muscular build make it a vehicle you simply have to drive.
 
A flowing exterior design clearly displays a sporty, dynamic shape. While the sports theme continues with more pronounced wheel arches, lower door finishers and a special perforated grille to create a truly inspirational look. The supercharged Range Rover Sport completes the model line up.
 
Start up the engine and you'll quickly discover there's more to this vehicle than meets the eye. Its high performance engines deliver a broad range of power  from a gentle purr when cruising to the delicious roar of its engines in full flight.
 
Choose from a 4.2-litre 385bhp supercharged V8 engine, electronically limited to a top speed of 140mph, the naturally aspirated 4.4-litre V8 or the refined 2.7 litre V6 Turbo Diesel.
 
Take a look inside and you'll discover a Land Rover unlike any other. Of course, you'll find the same contemporary mix of craftsmanship, of leather and wood, and the same high finish you would expect of a premium vehicle.
 
However, that's where the similarities end. The cockpit of Rang Rover Sport puts the driver well and truly at the heart of all the action and enveloped by the controls, including a sweeping centre console and an off  set gear lever. Yet, you'll still sit high, well above the traffic, in a Command Driving Position that is authentically Land Rover
 
The harmon/kardon LOGIC7® digital surround system* offers the very latest in sound reproduction  7.1 digital surround sound comprising 14 speakers and a 6-CD changer included in the dash.
There has never been a Land Rover so focused on precise handling, agility, and awesome on-road performance.
 
New Dynamic Response active roll control suspension system* reduces roll and maximises comfort, complemented by a fully independent double wishbone suspension for a sporty ride and exceptional on-road dynamics.
 
Adaptive Cruise Control with Forward Alert** allows Range Rover Sport to maintain a set speed and distance from the vehicle in front when cursing, so when it speeds up or slows down you do too.
 
There's even the addition, of powerful Bi-xenon adaptive headlights**, that match the beam direction to the vehicle direction to illuminate hazardous dark bends.
 
Nothing has been overlooked.
 
Range Rover Sport fuses the excitement of a sports tourer with the versatility of a Land Rover, to create a vehicle that excites both on and off road.
 
Why not call us today on 01765 64 64 64 and arrange a test drive.
 