help
Getting Your Property Appraised is Easy and Free! Let Us Do It For You
If you want to, for an additional cost, you can ask for a report of credit risk, plus a list of possible inhibitions to the sale.
1
Get informed about property appraisals, and let us assess yours
2
3
Wait for Our Call
After you send your Property Appraisal Request, we will call you to set a time and date for the appraisal.
Before getting your first appraisal..
Be patient and careful when deciding who's going to sell your property. Some agencies will try to get you to let them sell your property by telling you a price that is in fact much higher than what your property can actually be sold for. This often ends up in a very long selling progress with few results.
We often hear the question "How much is a property like this one worth?", and the answer is that every property is unique. Since your residence is not in the same place in the building, doesn't have the same light as any other, and so on, the exact value can never be known, all anyone can make is an estimation, which is why different peoples opinions vary so much.
When Appraising a Property, What Factors Contribute to the Market Price?
The state of the facade, entrance door, common areas of the building, staircases, gardens, etc.
Direction the property faces inside the building
The distribution of the rooms, etc., inside the residence
Number of Room
The quality of the construction materials of the house/building
The state of the floors, walls, and ceilings
Heat and water, individual or general services
Built-in closets
The kitchen and the state it is in
Orientation of the property
If it gets sunlight all day or only for a limited number of hours, the view, etc.
It seems easy, but in order to get a good appraisal you need to keep a number things in mind, like: The offer and demand situation, and knowing the tendencies and news of the market. Let us make your appraisal
Get More Information
Real Valuation
This is indispensable when beginning a good selling process, which is why a qualified professional will visit the property to appraise its actual state and other details that need to be kept in mind, but are different for each property and area where it can be found.
You will then be informed of the competitive sales value at which the property can be quickly sold. From the surveyor you will also receive information about the realty market trends at the time and the reasons why your property has the value that it does.
Do your want to know the value of a property? Then, why wait? Contact us to get fast and concrete results.
Appraisals and Confidentiality
An Appraisal is a personalized service, since you will receive a visit at the property and will be able to make questions about what the surveyor says and get explanations about the "why's" of certain subjects that influence the property value. For your security you are also guaranteed complete confidentiality. The surveyor promises not to share the estimated value with anyone until a sales permit has been sign, after which it is obvious that the sale price needs to be exposed to potential buyers.
Written Valuations
You can also ask for a written evaluation that, for a minimal cost, leaves you a written report that might be convenient for:
Being accepted guarantees from commercial rentals or loans
Deciding to buy