TV Schedules On TV Baby Week Deliver Me Dr. G: Medical Examiner Dr. Oz Dr. Peeke: Could You Survive? Mystery Diagnosis Nathan Lyon National Body Challenge Sam Zien The Duggar Family Then Came Six
 
Want to know about a disease and its treatment? Looking for a weight loss or fitness program? Want information on infertility, pregnancy and parenting? Interested in healthy living to reduce your risk of heart disease? You're in the right place! Discovery Health - your resource for health information, tips, tools, expert advice and support. National Body Challenge is a FREE, comprehensive fitness and weight-loss challenge that will help you shape up and shed pounds. Get a FREE 30-day membership to Bally Total Fitness, and lots more! Tune in at 8 pm Jan. 5 - 9 for the week-long National Body Challenge TV special! Then join the Challenge yourself and get a free 30-day Bally membership, 1000+ healthy recipes, and more! Meet the latest addition to the Duggar family, play Name That Duggar, flip through family photos and lots more! Join the National Body Challenge now and get delicious recipes, 24x7 online support, expert advice and a free 30-day membership to Bally Total Fitness. Follow the dramatic stories of babies who triumphantly enter our world, despite all odds and enormous challenges. These are truly "Miracle Babies."
Disease, Treatment, Pregnancy, Fitness, Weight Loss : Discovery Health
 
Join us in congratulating Michelle & Jim-Bob on the arrival of Jordyn-Grace Makiya Duggar! Proud New Parents -- AGAIN!
 
Next time you hear "Happy Holidays", think "Healthy Holidays". Eat Healthy During the Holidays
 
Can doctors find the causes of patients' mysterious symptoms before it's too late? Mystery ER
 
Our favorite forensic pathologist solves medical mysteries. Dr. G
 
These three amazing women juggle busy medical careers and motherhood. Deliver Me
 
The road to diagnosis can be a twisted path full of many surprises. Mystery Diagnosis
 
Get the scoop on your favorite shows from Discovery Health Channel. See All Shows
Learn about psoriasis and other skin conditions. Skin Health
 
Get the information, tips and support you need. Depression Center
 
Everything you need to know about the risks of and living with diabetes. Diabetes
 
Learn to lower your blood pressure and bad cholesterol. Heart Health
 
Recently diagnosed? Caring for a loved one? Visit our Health Centers. All Health Centers
Healthy and delicious recipes, tips and tools for the holidays. Holiday Health
 
Get Discovery Health tips on the go! Mobile Health Tips
 
10 tips to keep baby and mother healthy and vital. Healthy Pregnancy
 
Information on slowing, stopping or reversing the signs of aging. Plastic Surgery
 
Sex-savvy, or in the dark? Take our quiz and find out! Sexual Health
 
Dedicated to the unique relationship between people and animals. Animal Planet
 
Offering the best of Discovery Networks in High Definition. HD Theater
 
A global initiative including a television network, interactive tools and "how-to" resources. Planet Green
 
The premier provider of real-world entertainment. Discovery Channel
 
Your only destination for weapons, warfighters and history - 24/7. Military Channel
 
Delivering remarkable insight into investigation, forensic analysis and true stories that piece together puzzles of human nature. Investigation Discovery
 
The only network devoted entirely to the wonders of science. The Science Channel
 
TLC is an affirmative and connective experience. TLC
 
Providing lifestyle and fitness resources that work in the real world. HD Theater
 