Charles C. Deam Wilderness Area
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
U.S. Forest Service
The is located close to the city of . forms the northern boundary. It was established as in 1982 and is managed by the . It covers approximately 13,000 acres (53 km ). It was named in honor of former State Forester Charles C. Deam.Charles C. Deam Wilderness Area Bloomington, Indiana Lake Monroe wilderness Hoosier National Forest
The area is a fine example of , with its flat-topped ridges, -laden streambeds, and occasional caves. Squirrels, deer, and other game are plentiful, attracting many hunters every fall. Hikers, backpackers, and horseback riders are also drawn to the wilderness and its 39 miles of trails. Karst topography geode
In contrast to relatively virgin wilderness areas elsewhere in the country, the entire area now known as the "Deam" was once inhabited by white settlers. Most of the trails follow old roadbeds, and a bit of exploration off the main trails will bring visitors past other shadows of the past, including house foundations, domestic plants, old fences, and the occasional cemetery (five cemeteries exist within the wilderness boundary). The narrow, rocky ridges made for marginally productive farmland, but the inhabitants were able to scrape by until . As the economy forced them out, the acquired their property and, with the help of the , began rehabilitating the area and managing it for recreation. "Improvements" included constructing ponds, replanting trees, and building the that still stands, open to the public, at the Hickory Ridge Trailhead. After it was designated as wilderness under , the only improvements came in the form of trail maintenance and nature's own management plan. the Great Depression U.S. Forest Service Civilian Conservation Corps Hickory Ridge Fire Tower Ronald Reagan
Abandoned cabin ruins found along Axiom Branch Trail near Monroe Reservoir shore.
One of the last few standing signs depicting the Wildlife Improvement Woodland Game Project.
Sunrise at Terrel Pond.