[] edit Plot synopsis
The focus is on aristocrat Regina Hubbard Giddens, who struggles for wealth and freedom within the confines of an early 20th century society where a father considered only sons as legal heirs. As a result, her brothers Benjamin and Oscar are independently wealthy, while she must rely upon her sickly husband Horace for financial support. Southern avaricious
Having married his much-maligned, alcoholic wife Birdie solely to acquire her family's and its cotton fields, Oscar now wants to join forces with Benjamin to construct a . They approach their sister with their need for an additional $75,000 to invest in the project. Oscar initially proposes a marriage between his son Leo and Regina's daughter Alexandra - first cousins - as a means of getting Horace's money, but Horace and Alexandra are repulsed by the suggestion. When Regina asks Horace outright for the money, he refuses, so Leo is pressured into stealing Horace's from the family business. In order to acquire a larger share in the mill from her brothers, Regina threatens to report the theft to the police. In retaliation, Horace says he will claim he gave Leo the bonds as a loan, thereby cutting Regina out of the deal completely. When he suffers a heart attack, she makes no effort to give him his medicine, and he dies, having tried to climb the stairs for the help of Regina's maid, without anyone knowing his plan. Regina makes use of this in blackmailing her brothers. The price she ultimately pays for her evil is the loss of Alexandra's love and respect. What is more, Benjamin suggests that he could, in turn, blackmail Regina, commenting it that he found it odd that her husband had died on the stairs. plantation cotton mill railroad bonds
[] edit Production notes
Lillian Hellman's characters were thinly-disguised versions of her relatives; Regina was based on her grandmother Sophie and Birdie was inspired by her mother Julia. Demopolis, Alabama
The playwright and star were at odds during the first run of the play. Bankhead accused Hellman of being a due to her support of against during , and Hellman was dismayed by Bankhead's unprofessional tantrums. After closing night, they did not speak to each other for thirty years. In 1975, Hellman said of Bankhead, "She turned out at first as I've written many times: very, very, very good. And later on in the run of the play, not very good." In her , Bankhead wrote, "Great as is my admiration for Lillian Hellman as a playwright, I could never again rejoice in her company." Tallulah Bankhead Broadway Communist Russia Finland Winter War autobiography [1]
[] edit Original Broadway production
The play premiered on February 15, 1939 at the and ran for 410 performances. In addition to Bankhead as Regina Giddens, the opening night cast included as Oscar, as Benjamin, as Horace, as Birdie, as Leo, and Florence Williams as Alexandra. The production was produced and directed by Herman Shumlin. replaced Williams later in the run. National Theatre Carl Benton Reid Charles Dingle Frank Conroy Patricia Collinge Dan Duryea Eugenia Rawls
[] edit Broadway revivals
directed a production that opened on October 26, 1967 at the in , then transferred to the . It ran a total of 100 performances. The cast included as Regina, as Horace. as Birdie, as Oscar, as Benjamin, and as Leo. Costume design was by . said, "An admirable revival of Lillian Hellman's 1939 play in Lincoln Center demonstrates how securely bricks of character can be sealed together with the mortar of plot. Anne Bancroft, George C. Scott, Richard Dysart and Margaret Leighton are expertly guided by Director Mike Nichols through gilt-edged performances." Mike Nichols Vivian Beaumont Theatre Lincoln Center Ethel Barrymore Theatre Anne Bancroft Richard A. Dysart Margaret Leighton E.G. Marshall George C. Scott Austin Pendleton Patricia Zipprodt Time [2]
Austin Pendleton directed a production that ran at the Parker Playhouse in for three weeks and the in for six weeks before opening on Broadway, after eight previews, on May 7, 1981 at the . It ran for 123 performances. The cast included as Regina, as Horace, as Leo, as Birdie, and as Benjamin. Costume design was by . In a pre-Broadway opening article in , reported nearly $1 million worth of tickets had been sold during the week following the first ad announcing Taylor's appearance . She was nominated for both the and the for Outstanding Actress in a Play. Tony nominations also went to Pendleton for , Aldredge for , Stapleton for , and the play itself for . Fort Lauderdale Kennedy Center Washington, D.C. Martin Beck Theatre Elizabeth Taylor Tom Aldredge Dennis Christopher Maureen Stapleton Anthony Zerbe Florence Klotz Time Gerald Clarke New York Times [3] Tony Award for Best Performance by a Leading Actress in a Play Drama Desk Award Best Direction of a Play Best Featured Actor in a Play Best Featured Actress in a Play Best Reproduction
A 1997 revival, again at the Vivian Beaumont, ran for 27 previews and 57 performances between April 3 and June 15. Directed by , the cast included as Regina, as Horace, as Oscar, as Benjamin, and as Birdie. Murray was nominated for the Tony Award for Best Featured Actor in a Play and won the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Featured Actor in a Play, and John Lee Beatty was nominated for the . Jack O'Brien Stockard Channing Kenneth Welsh Brian Kerwin Brian Murray Frances Conroy Tony Award for Best Scenic Design