Articles by Garcia, F.
American Cancer Society Guideline for Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccine Use to Prevent Cervical Cancer and Its Precursors
Debbie Saslow, PhD, Philip E. Castle, PhD, MPH, J. Thomas Cox, MD, Diane D. Davey, MD, Mark H. Einstein, MD, MS, Daron G. Ferris, MD, Sue J. Goldie, MD, MPH, Diane M. Harper, MD, MPH, MS, Walter Kinney, MD, Anna-Barbara Moscicki, MD, Kenneth L. Noller, MD, Cosette M. Wheeler, PhD, Terri Ades, RN, MS, AOCN, Kimberly S. Andrews, Mary K. Doroshenk, MA, Kelly Green Kahn, Christy Schmidt, Omar Shafey, PhD, MPH, Robert A. Smith, PhD, Edward E. Partridge, MD (for The Gynecologic Cancer Advisory Group), Francisco Garcia, MD, MPH
is Director, Breast and Gynecologic Cancer, Cancer Control Science Department, American Cancer Society, Atlanta, GA. is Investigator, Hormonal and Reproductive Epidemiology Branch, Division of Cancer Epidemiology and Genetics, National Cancer Institute, Department of Health and Human Services, Rockville, MD. is Director, Colposcopy and Gynecologic Clinic, Health Services Department, University of California, Santa Barbara, CA. is Professor, Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine; and Director, Cytopathology, University of Kentucky Medical Center, Lexington, KY. is Director, Clinical Research; and Attending Physician, Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Women's Health, Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, NY. is Director, Gynecologic Cancer Prevention Center; and Professor, Departments of Family Medicine and Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA. is Professor of Health Policy and Decision Science; and Director of the Program in Health Decision Science, Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA. is Professor, Dartmouth Medical School; and Director, Gynecologic Cancer Prevention Research Group, Norris Cotton Cancer Center, Hanover, NH. is Gynecologic Oncologist, Division of Gynecologic Oncology, The Permanente Medical Group, Inc., Sacramento, CA; and Associate Clinical Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of California, Davis, CA. is Professor of Pediatrics; and Associate Director, Division of Adolescent Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA. is Gynecologist-in-Chief, Tufts-New England Medical Center, Boston, MA. is Professor, Departments of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology and Obstetrics and Gynecology, University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center, Albuquerque, NM. is Director, Cancer Information, Health Promotions Department, American Cancer Society, Atlanta, GA. is Research Associate, Cancer Control Science Department, American Cancer Society, Atlanta, GA. is Manager, National Colorectal Cancer Roundtable, Cancer Control Science Department, American Cancer Society, Washington, DC. is Senior Federal Relations Representative, National Government Relations Department, American Cancer Society, Washington, DC. is Senior Director, Policy, National Government Relations Department, American Cancer Society, Washington, DC. is Director, International Programs and Research, International Affairs Department, American Cancer Society, Atlanta, GA. is Director, Cancer Screening, Cancer Control Science Department, American Cancer Society, Atlanta, GA. is Acting Director of the Comprehensive Cancer Center; and Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Gynecologic Oncology, The University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL. is Associate Professor of Obstetrics and Gynecology; and Director, University of Arizona National Center of Excellence in Women's Health and the Arizona Hispanic Center of Excellence, Tucson, AZ.Dr. Saslow
Dr. Castle
Dr. Partridge
Dr. Garcia
This article is available online at To earn free CME credit for successfully completing the online quiz based on this article, go to . Disclosures: Workgroup members were asked to disclose relationships, including potential financial conflicts of interest, with vaccine manufacturers or trials. The following was disclosed: F. Garcia participated in an expert panel for GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) for an unrelated immune therapeutic class of agents; C. Cohen is a paid speaker for Merck; T. Cox is a paid member of the Merck Data Safety and Monitoring Committee and received an honorarium for serving on one management advisory board for GSK; D. Davey serves on the working group of the NCI-sponsored trial of GSK vaccine in Costa Rica; M. Einstein has received research support from GSK for a nonvaccine-related activity and serves on the speaker's bureau for Merck, but receives no salary support or honorarium; D. Ferris receives research support for vaccine trials from Merck and GSK and serves as a colposcopy quality control consultant to both Merck and GSK and on the Merck medical advisory board; D. Harper serves on the study planning committee for Merck and GSK and is a clinical site PI for GSK; A. Moscicki serves on Merck's speaker's bureau and adolescent advisory board and is a local PI on the GSK vaccine trial; E. Partridge received an honorarium for a one-day advisory meeting for Merck and is a PI for a clinical study site for Merck; C. Wheeler receives research support for vaccine trials from Merck and GSK; D. Solomon is a medical monitor for the NCI-sponsored trial of GSK vaccine in Costa Rica. http://CAonline.AmCancerSoc.org
TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION
GUIDELINE DEVELOPMENT
RECOMMENDATIONS BACKGROUND RATIONALE AND EVIDENCE FOR... ANTICIPATED IMPACT OF HPV... VACCINE IMPLEMENTATION AND... RECOMMENDATIONS FOR ADDITIONAL... CONCLUSION GYNECOLOGIC CANCER ADVISORY... REFERENCES
The ACS Guideline panel worked parallel to, but independentfrom, the Federal Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices(ACIP) and the ACIP working group on HPV. The ACIP developswritten recommendations for the routine administration of vaccineswith the goals of reducing the incidence of vaccine-preventablediseases and increasing the safe usage of vaccines. ACIP recommendationsinclude the appropriate periodicity, dosage, and contraindicationsapplicable to vaccines. The ACIP voted on recommendations forHPV vaccination in June 2006; a full report will be publishedin and available at .Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report http://www.cdc.gov/nip/publications/acip-list.htm
   RECOMMENDATIONS
TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION GUIDELINE DEVELOPMENT
RECOMMENDATIONS
TABLE Summary of American Cancer Society (ACS) Recommendations for Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccine Use to Prevent Cervical Cancer and Its Precursors1
    Screening
It is critical that women, whether vaccinated or not, continuescreening according to current ACS early detection guidelines.
A preventive health care visit in which vaccination is discussedor offered represents an appropriate opportunity to offer Papscreening to sexually active patients.
HPV testing beforeinitiating vaccination is not recommended.
    Vaccine Implementation and Utilization
Public health and policy efforts are needed to ensure accessand encourage high HPV vaccine coverage for all racial, ethnic,and socioeconomic groups, particularly for females of color,immigrants, those living in rural areas, low-income and uninsuredfemales, and others who have limited access to health care services.
Strategies should be implemented to maximize adherence tovaccinationrecommendations, including coadministration withother recommendedadolescent vaccines, once sufficient safetydata are available.
The use of noncomprehensive visits (eg,minor illness visits,camp/sports physical visits) and alternativevaccination sitesfor adolescents unable to access comprehensivepreventive careis encouraged.
    Education
There is a critical need for education of providers, policy-makers,parents, adolescents, and young women about cervical cancerprevention and early detection, including the need for regularscreening even after vaccination.
    Research
Ongoing research and surveillance should be conducted in diversepopulations, including research on duration of protective immunity,population- and lesion-based changes in type-specific prevalencefor the full spectrum of carcinogenic and noncarcinogenic genitalHPV types, changes in Pap test performance characteristics,changes in screening practices and behaviors, comprehensivesurveillance for reproductive toxicities, increasing vaccinecoverage and acceptability, and impact on safe sexual behavior.
Safety and efficacy of prophylactic HPV vaccine for the preventionof other anogenital cancers and head and neck cancers in males,as well as females, should be evaluated.
Research is neededregarding the design of sustainable vaccinationprograms inless developed countries.
   BACKGROUND
TOP ABSTRACT INTRODUCTION GUIDELINE DEVELOPMENT RECOMMENDATIONS
BACKGROUND
10 11
Virtually all cervical cancers are causally related to infectionsby HPV. Approximately 70% of cervical cancers are caused byHPV types 16 or 18. About 500,000 precancerous lesions(cervical intraepithelial neoplasia [CIN] Grade 2 and 3 [CIN2and CIN3]) are diagnosed each year in the United States, andabout 50% to 60% are attributable to HPV16 and HPV18. In contrast,CIN1 is caused by a variety of HPV types, about 25% by eitherHPV16 or HPV18, and about 5% by HPV6 or HPV11. 12 , 13 14 15 16 17
Anal cancer is diagnosed in about 4,000 people annually (620deaths) in the United States, and approximately 80% to 90% ofanal cancers are caused by either HPV16 or HPV18. Vulvarcancers number about 3,870 annually (870 deaths), and at least40% of these are HPV-related. Variable proportions of penile,vaginal, urethral, and head and neck cancershave been found to contain carcinogenic HPV types., 18 19 , 20 21 22 23 24 – 25 27
Over 500,000 new cases of anogenital warts are diagnosed annuallyin the United States, and about 90% are caused by HPV types6 or 11. Approximately 10% of men and women will develop anogenitalwarts at some point in their lives. Anogenital warts are benigngrowths that often recur within the first 6 months of initialdiagnosis and therefore require repeated treatment sessions.In rare instances anogenital warts become locally invasive andrequire extensive surgery for removal. 28 29 30 31
Juvenile laryngeal papillomatosis occurs in about 1 in 200,000children under age 18 years, most before age 4 years, and ischaracterized by recurrent benign tumors that may lead to respiratoryobstruction. Because of the high recurrence rate, surgical removaloften needs to be repeated multiple times. In rare circumstancespapillomas may transform to carcinoma; this has been reportedto occur in the larynx, esophagus, and bronchi. HPV types6 and 11 are most frequently demonstrated in respiratory papillomas,with some investigators finding HPV11 most often associatedwith progression to cancer. 32 , 33 34 35
     The most successful strategy for cervical cancer preventionhas been the implementation of population-based organized andopportunistic screening programs utilizing exfoliative cervicalcytology, the Pap test. The introduction of screening programsin unscreened populations has been shown to reduce cervicalcancer rates by 60% to 90% within 3 years after implementation.The purpose of cervical cancer screening is the early detection,diagnosis, and treatment of cancer precursor lesions and cancer.US cervical cancer incidence rates decreased by 75% and mortalityby 74% in the 50 years following the introduction of cervicalcytology in 1949 and have continued to decrease in thecurrent decade.Screening
36 1 , 37 38
The success of cervical cytology as a public health interventionreflects (1) the generally slow progression from precancerouslesions to invasive cancer, providing ample opportunities forearly detection; (2) the ability to identify associated cytologicabnormalities before invasive disease appears; (3) the availabilityof effective and minimally morbid therapy for premalignant disease;and (4) a strategy that includes frequent repetition of thetest. All these factors contribute to making invasive squamouscell carcinoma of the uterine cervix an almost entirely preventabledisease. Despite this success, the imperfect sensitivity ofcytology testing is estimated to be responsible for 30% of allcervical cancers; and provider error in follow up of abnormalresults accounts for another 10%. Cytologic screening suffersfrom suboptimal single-test sensitivity, limited reproducibility,and many equivocal results. Consequently, several organizations,including the ACS, have recommended HPV testing in conjunctionwith cytology as a screening option for women aged 30 yearsand older. It has been suggested that, even under the bestscreening circumstances, an incidence rate of 2 to 3 per 100,000women can be expected. 39 40 41 42 DNA, 1 43 40
Beyond the limitations of the test itself, the failure of someat-risk women to receive regular screening tests also contributesto the burden of cervical cancer. Half of all women who developcervical cancer in the United States have never been screened,and an additional 10% will have not been screened within 5 yearsof their diagnosis. Nonparticipation in cervical cancerscreening is a complex multifactorial phenomenon. Failure toundergo a cytologic screening examination is due to a varietyof sometimes inter-related reasons including personal factors(fear, embarrassment, anxiety, inadequateknowledge, lack oftime, misperception of risk), cultural factors (provider gender,lack of acculturation, age, religious beliefs), and systemicfactors (lack of insurance, poverty, legal migratory status,geographic isolation, lack of providers). Accordingto the 2002 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS)survey, after adjustment for individual-level factors, areapoverty rate was independently associated with never havingbeen screened for breast and colorectal cancer, but not cervicalcancer. Factors other than economic ones are often at play inlack of participation in cervical cancer screening, whereaspoverty is commonly the inhibitor to obtaining evaluation andtreatment after cytologic detection of an abnormality.,, 40 44 45 – 46 49 50
     The greatest burden of cervical cancer is found in underserved,resource-poor populations of women in whom at least 80% of allincident cervical cancer and related mortality occurs. Thehighest rates of cervical cancer have been observed in regionsof Africa, Central and South America, and Micronesia, whereage-standardized incidence rates exceeding 50 cases per 100,000women per year have been observed.Disparities in Cervical Cancer Incidenceand Mortality
51
While rates of cervical cancer incidence and related mortalityin the United States have fallen following successful implementationof cervical cytology and colposcopy programs, significant racialand ethnic disparities exist with regard to incidence, mortality,and survival associated with the diagnosis of cervical cancerin this country. The disparities in incidence andmortality between non-Hispanic white women and other racial/ethnicgroups increase with age. Although disparities in incidenceand mortality have decreased in recent years, cervical cancerincidence remains about 60% higher among black women (10.5/100,000)compared with white women (6.6/100,000), and cervical cancermortality among black women is the highest (4.7/100,000) ofany racial or ethnic group. Rates are particularly high amongthose African Americans living in the rural South (eg, the MississippiDelta) and also in some urban areas (eg, Washington, DC) ().Other US racial/ethnic/geographic groups experience cervicalcancer incidence and mortality higher than the population average.These include (1) Hispanics living along the US-Mexico borderareas; (2) White (non-Hispanic) women living in Appalachia,rural New York State, and Northern New England; (3) AmericanIndian women living in the Northern Plains and Alaskan Natives;and (4) Vietnamese Americans (). Cervical cancer incidenceremains high among these groups because of limited resourcesand poor access to health care, which is further exacerbatedby social and cultural barriers.– 52 54 55 38 56 Figure 1 58 49 59 54 Figure 1 60
(50K):