Ansted Gauley Bridge Glen Jean Mt. Hope Thurmond
Alum Creek Branchland
Davy Iaeger Kimball Roderick Twin Branch War Welch
Historic Matewan Williamson Dingess Red Jacket
Itmann Mullens Oceana Sabine Wyco Wyoming
CLAY - DUNDON
HISTORY
DUNDON
The Buffalo began service in 1904 to trade coal and supplies between the Rich Run Mine in Widen, West Virginia and the Baltimore & Ohio (B&O) Railroad in Dundon. In 1918, a log train was added to service the booming sawmill in Swandale, halfway between Dundon and Widen. Log trains hauled the region's timber to Swandale, and then distributed the milled lumber all over the country via its connection to the B&O. At its peak, Swandale had over 400 residents and was a thriving industrial operation.Creek & Gauley (BC&G) Railroad
The BC&G operated full time until 1964. Part of the line was rebuilt in the late 1970s and early 1980s, but was later abandoned when flooding washed out the Buffalo Creek Bridge.
for more information. Photos were provided by . Buffalo Creek & Gauley, by William E. Warden includes a lot of information of the BC & G along with a lot of photos. To order, Click here Rick Connell
click here.
came into existence July 12th, 1989, when sixty one miles of out of service railroad between Gilmer and Hartland, West Virginia, was leased by a local corporation, Bright Enterprises. Several years later the well known Buffalo Creek and Gauley Railroad line between Dundon and Widen, West Virginia, was also acquired. From 1996 to 1999, the Elk River Railroad operated out of Gassaway and had a run to Avoca and further.The Elk River Railroad
For more information, click here.
There is no formal interpretation of the rail/coal resources in Dundon.
It is noted in that some of the BC & G's equipment, as well as that of it's sister railroad, the Elk River Coal & Lumber Company, have been preserved at the Cass Scenic Railroad located at Cass, WV, which is just across the Elk River from Dundon. BC & G locomotive #13 still exists and is operational as Ohio Southern #13 which is believed to be located at the Ohio Railroad Museum. www.wikipedia.org
There is a Buffalo Creek & Gauley Railroad initiative currently in the works. More information coming soon.
For an inventory of all the tourism related offerings in Clay County West Virginia, click here.
WMTH CORPORATION PO BOX 51153 BOWLING GREEN, KY 42102 PHONE (270) 781-6858 FAX 781-2949