 
(A701) Introduction to String (Grades 5, 6) Orchestra
This year-long course is required for 5th-graders without previous training on the violin, viola, cello, or bass and is optional for 6th-graders.
Students learn to play the violin, viola, cello, or bass through small group instruction and participation in a string orchestra. All members of the ensemble have the opportunity to work closely with our highly qualified teaching staff and will be put in contact with outstanding private instructors. Students will develop their ability to read music notation and compose melodies. Previous experience in instrumental music is not required. Please contact instrumental music director Andrew Krus for more information (andrew.krus@lakesideschool.org).
(A702) String (Grades 5, 6, 7, 8) Orchestra
The string orchestra will perform several concerts throughout the school year. All members of the ensemble have the opportunity to work closely with our highly qualified teaching staff and will be put in contact with outstanding private instructors. In addition to performing leadership roles in the orchestra, advanced players will be able to audition for solo opportunities and study chamber music with exceptional coaches. There is one position for a piano player available. All students with previous experience on the violin, viola, cello, or string bass can join this ensemble. Placement will be determined through a placement interview with instrumental music director Andrew Krus; please contact him for more information (). andrew.krus@lakesideschool.org
 
(Grades 6, 7, 8) Wind Ensemble
This ensemble provides an opportunity for 6th through 8th grade students to continue the study of a wind instrument in a concert band setting. Students will develop technical proficiency on their instrument and learn to play a variety of musical styles, including jazz. This course can prepare students for entrance into the Jazz Big Band. Instruments typically included in this ensemble are flute, oboe, English horn, clarinets (all types), saxophones (all types), French horn, trumpet, trombone, euphonium/baritone, and tuba. A limited number of positions for percussionists and piano players is available. This course is open to students in grades 6 through 8 with a minimum of one year of previous experience on an instrument. A placement interview with the instrumental music director is necessary for all members. Please contact instrumental music director Andrew Krus for more information (andrew.krus@lakesideschool.org).
Jazz Big Band (Grades 7, 8)
This is an advanced jazz band for students in grades 7 and 8. This big band performs several concerts throughout the year and learns a variety of musical styles from around the globe, including swing, be-bop, blues, and Afro-Cuban. Dedicated students will have the opportunity to develop their improvisation skills as soloists and work closely with exceptional professional coaches. Instruments typically included in this ensemble are saxophones (all types), trumpet, and trombone. There are a limited number of positions for clarinets (all types), mallet percussion, non-western percussion, guitar, drums, piano, and bass. A placement interview with the instrumental music director is necessary for all members. Please contact instrumental music director Andrew Krus for more information (). andrew.krus@lakesideschool.org
(Grade 7) (A672) World Music
Seventh grade students take one trimester each of world music, chorus, and drama with this option. The sequence of the trimester-long courses varies. In the world music trimester of this course combination, students explore cultures of the world through the study of indigenous and contemporary music. Students will journey through Latin America, South America, East India, and other global locations to learn the role of music in society. Each student's interests and musical talents are incorporated into the course content. The group will study, listen to, and perform music from around the globe. No previous experience in music is required. Piano, guitar, drums, bass, percussion, and voice encouraged and welcome.
 