Brunali (Species 2461) Peaceful
Icheb's home planet. Brunali buildings are mostly small huts since they have to keep things very low-tech or the Borg will detect them and attack the planet again. They are skilled in agricultural genetics, which allows them to grow crops in inhospitable environments Some Brunali children (like Icheb) is genetically engineered at birth with anti-Borg pathogens. Their parents raise them specifically to be assimilated, infect the Borg and stop the attacks on their planet.
(Child's Play)
Cardassians Hostile
and the . Seska, a former Maquis and an ensign on Voyager, was found to be a Cardassian spy. She joined the Kazon and helped them to seize Voyager. In the end she died when Lieutenant Paris, the Doctor and several Talaxian ships were able to overload Voyager's Phaser couplings and free Voyager from the Kazon. The Cardassian people originate from the Alpha quadrant and is considered a very cruel species. They are in conflict with the federation Maquis
(State of Flux, Basics, Nothing Human)
 
Caretaker (The Nacene) Peaceful/Hostile
  The Nacene, who exist as pure sporocystian energy and comes from another galaxy, visited Ocampa about a millennium ago They accidentally destroyed the atmosphere by removing all of its nucleogenic particles. This made it impossible for the planet's atmosphere to create clouds, rain or water. The Nacene felt responsible for the situation and left two chosen 'Caretakers' to provide the Ocampa with what they needed to survive without water. The Caretaker's mate, Suspiria, didn't agree with her mate on how to take care of the Ocampan species, and left together with a group of around 2000 Ocampans, which she helped to grow stronger telepathic abilities. Voyager encountered this other Caretaker in 2372. The Caretaker was responsible for pulling Voyager into the Delta Quadrant. He needed a genetic match to produce offspring, which would take over his task as a caretaker, and pulled ships from all over the galaxy to find one. He didn't succeed and died from old age.