Find your body mass index
Joints and Mobility
Maintain supple and flexible joints all year round! There is much you can do to lessen the impact of age and repetitive activity on your joints. It's never too late to start a programme of maintenance, which could include supplements such as cod liver oil and glucosamine.
Bromelain Bromelain is popular with people involved in high-impact sports and is a mixture of enzymes found in pineapples
Calcium Helpful in maintaining healthy bones and teeth
Chondroitin Found in the joints where it helps attract fluid into cartilage
Cod Liver Oil A natural source of Vitamins A and D, it helps in the maintenance of supple and flexible joints
Collagen Collagen is the main component of the connective tissue and is the substance that holds our skin, cartilage and bones together
Devils Claw Also known as Harpagopthytum
Fish Oils Rich in fatty acids which help maintain a healthy heart and assist joint mobility
Flexeze Goldshield's expert pharmacists use only the purest pharmaceutical grade ingredients. That's why Flexeze is Britain's number 1
Flexipaws Glucosamine Sulphate with Chondroitin for Cats and Dogs. For joints, mobility & connective tissue.
Glucosamine Helps in the maintenance of joint mobility
Glucox Contains Glucosamine Hydrochloride, delivering more pure glucosamine than traditional Glucosamine Sulphate supplements
Green Lipped Mussel Complex proteins, polypeptides, chondroitin sulphates,long chain unsaturated fatty acids, nucleic acids and polysaccharides
Joints and Mobility Books Increase your knowledge about joints and mobility problems and how to alleviate them
Lubramine & Celadrin Acts as a lubricant to the body's cell membranes, making the cells more fluid and elastic, which is important for the fluids that cushion the body's bones and joints
MSM An organic sulphur compound found in plants
Omega 3 Fish Oil A fatty acid which helps maintain a healthy heart and normal circulation
Pain Relief Designed to provide fast safe pain relief
Pet Care Range Help look after you pets' mobility and general health.
Quorus A naturally derived mixture of ten fatty acids and Sea Cucumber extract.
RoZip Goldshield ROZIP is a specially formulated supplement cntaining a pure source of rose hip extract
Rose Hip Extract Rose Hips are rich in vitamins A, C and E and carotenoids including beta-carotene, Lycopene and Lutein. They are also a source of flavanoids and fatty acids.
Glucosamine from Goldshield ... Flexeze, the original and still the best!
Our joints rely on a careful balance of vitamins and nutrients to support a lifetime of wear and tear. is found in high levels in tendon,  and cartilage tissue and is important in helping to maintain flexible joints. The depleted nutritional content of our food can lead to a less than adequate balance of nutrients to help in our body's production of . The body's natural ability to produce glucosamine also diminishes with age. Supplementation with glucosamine and or may be helpful in maintaining the smooth working of our joints.