Thursday, 01 May 2008 20:38 News Archive (2008)
Resources & Links
| Original Press Release (PDF) Discuss on Forum
Press Release
Media Bitch" is proud to announce Mind Over Matter: Images of Pink Floyd an exciting exhibition of photographs and designs by Storm Thorgerson (Hipgnosis and StormStudios).
Mind Over Matter celebrates the 40th anniversary of both Saucerful of Secrets (Pink Floyd's second album) and of the unique and long standing relationship between Pink Floyd and designer Storm Thorgerson.
Storms work has featured on a variety of album covers for numerous different bands; however it is his work with Pink Floyd that is arguably the best known. Part of the same Cambridge social set that spawned Pink Floyd, Storm Thorgerson, and his original creative partner Aubrey Powell as Hipgnosis, were first commissioned on Pink Floyd's A Saucerful of Secrets . They continued to work with band ( Ummagumma , Atom Heart Mother , 'Meddle') and their design for The Dark Side of the Moon has often been referred to as one of the greatest album covers of all time.
Hipgnosis worked with the band ( Wish You Were Here , Animals , Dance Songs ) until 1982 and subsequently Storm as StormStudios continued designing for Pink Floyd from 1987 until the present day ( Momentary Lapse Of Reason , Delicate Sound of Thunder , Division Bell , Pulse , Echoes , Oh By The Way )
Clearly a great meeting of minds, the exhibition will include over sixty photographs, comprising album covers, single bags, band photos, posters, programmes and so forth, reproduced as high quality light jet digital prints, in colour as well as in black and white.
All prints are made by Bayeux from original art, in a variety of sizes; all signed by Storm Thorgerson, and can be purchased at the gallery during the exhibition.
The exhibition will be held at the.gallery@oxo, Oxo Tower Wharf, Bargehouse Street, South Bank London SE1 9PH from Thursday 24 July until Sunday 10th August 2008.
The gallery is open daily from 11am to 6pm and admission to the exhibition is free. For further information on the gallery, please refer to www.coinstreet.org
The official opening night is scheduled on Thursday 24th July between 6pm to 8.30pm and is by invitation only.
: [ Nina @ Media Bitch ]Sources