Childrens Menu
 
The resort offers the signature kid-friendly program, Ritz Kids .The counselor-supervised program is designed for guests age five through 12 and provides a wide variety of activities, from nature hikes to arts and crafts.  
In addition, Ritz Kids participants will be able to participate in theme days such as Sports Day , Executive for a Day ,Safari Day , Pirate Day and Lifeguard for a Day. Simultaneous sessions will be planned for participants who will be divided into groups based on age. 
For parents who would like their children to enjoy two full sessions per day with no break in-between, Lunch Buddies will accompany participants in a poolside lunch in between Ritz Kids sessions. 
Located on the first floor by the picturesque , the space comfortably balances the needs of the children and pre-teens by including a variety of games and d cor.
PonteVecchio
Park
 
Offered seasonally, two three-hour Ritz Kids day sessions are available every day of the week.The first session begins at 9 a.m., concluding at noon.The second session runs from 1 to 4 p.m., with an evening session from 6 to 9 p.m. on Thursdays and Saturdays.   
Ritz Kids participants should bring swimsuits, sunscreen, shoes and dry clothes to their sessions. All sessions must be reserved at least 24 hours in advance. Availability is limited. 24 hour advance notice is required for cancellation. The Ritz Kids cost is $50 per child per 3-hour session, $80 per child for two sessions in the same day and $50 for the evening session.
The program is based on a first come, first serve basis and is available to all hotel guests.
New Ritz Kids acitivities:
1. Kids Night Out Children can get away for a night of fun and excitement, while parents enjoy a quiet dinner at Medici Cafe and Terrace on Friday and Saturday evenings. The supervised night includes a special dinner, movies and arts and crafts. The Kids Night Out program is offered from 6 to 9 p.m., or until 11 p.m. for parents who need a bit more time out. The "Kids Night Out" is $65 per child. Can be extended for $15 an hour, per child. 2. Open Play Session Children get the opportunity to socialize on Friday's and Saturday's with other children while mom and dad enjoy a round of golf,a day at the spa or relaxing time by the pool. 9 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. - $20 per hour Special hours for groups are available upon request. Friday and Saturday, upon 24 hour advance reservation. 3. Lake Las Vegas, Youth Spa Memorial Day through Labor Day Available daily, from 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. in the Fitness Studio for guests ages 5 to 17. LLV Youth and Teen Spa services are performed with the guest fully clothed, are 25 minutes each and include the following spa and wellness options. Massage Service: $68 Facial: $68 Manicure: $50 Pedicure: $60 Nutritional Consultation: $40 Personal Training $40
A 20% Service Charge will be added to the above price. Parents must accompany guests 5 through 15 years.
At The Ritz-Carlton, , the resort offers numerous activities and events for every member of the family throughout the year, with the experience beginning at the front door:
Lake
 
V.I.K. Check-In
Upon check-in, our Very Important Kids or V.I.K.s are immediately greeted by our ladies and gentlemen with their own special warm welcome that makes our youngest guests feel like the V.I.K.s they are.
 
Outdoor Activities
At The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas, enjoy extensive outdoor recreation for guests of all ages, including stargazing, fly-fishing, guided walks and hiking, mountain biking, kayaking, yacht cruises, gondola rides, eco-tours, meditation, yoga and Pilates classes and swimming.
 
P.O.L.O. Kits
Upon request, we will child-proof the room, in addition to providing our complimentary P.O.L.O. (Protect Our Little Ones) kit, complete with a nightlight, baby lotion and shampoo, Band-Aids and much more.For infants, cribs are available with bedding and blankets. 
 
Dive-In Movies
Lights!Camera!Pool!The popular series, Dive-In Movies returns this summer.Watch your favorite movie on a big screen while enjoying the pool and summer fare.Dive-In will take place on Friday and Saturday evenings.Admission is complimentary and open to both hotel guests and the public.The movie screen measures seven feet by 12 feet.In addition to the movie, guests can indulge in the concession stand with popcorn, nachos, hot dogs and more.The movie schedule will be released this spring.         
Kids Night Out
Children can get away for a night of fun and excitement, while parents enjoy a quiet dinner at Medici Cafe and Terrace on Friday and Saturday evenings. The supervised night includes a special dinner, movies and arts and crafts. The Kids Night Out program is offered from 6 to 9 p.m., or until 11 p.m. for parents who need a bit more time out. The Kids Night Out is $65 per child. Can be extended for $15 an hour, per child.
Children get the opportunity to socialize on Friday's and Saturday's with other children while mom and dad enjoy a round of golf,a day at the spa or relaxing time by the pool. 9 a.m. - 4:00 p.m. - $20 per hour Special hours for groups are available upon request. Friday and Saturday, upon 24 hour advance reservation.Open Play Session
Lake Las Vegas Youth Spa
Memorial Day through Labor Day Available daily, from 12:00 p.m. - 2:00 p.m. in the Fitness Studio for guests ages 5 to 17. LLV Youth and Teen Spa services are performed with the guest fully clothed, are 25 minutes each and include the following spa and wellness options. Massage Service: $68 Facial: $68 Manicure: $50 Pedicure: $60 Nutritional Consultation: $40 Personal Training $40
A 20% Service Charge will be added to the above price. Parents must accompany guests 5 through 15 years.
Junior guests at The Ritz-Carlton enjoy menu items made especially for their particular tastes.
BREAKFAST SELECTIONS
All-American Breakfast Eggs, Choice of Bacon or Sausage, Toast
Waffles (2) with Cream and Berries
Cereal Selections
Peanut Butter and Jelly Sandwich
Spaghetti with Tomato Sauce
Cheese Hamburger with French Fries and Choice of Cheese
All Beef Hot Dog with French Fries and Pickle Cheese
Pepperoni Pizza
Fried Chicken Fingers and French Fries
Macaroni and Cheese
Chocolate Pudding with Oreo Pieces
Ice Cream