Summer Camps
Naturalist Programs
At our Naturalist programs students will learn about a natural or cultural history topic presented by an Eagle Bluff staff through stories, slide shows, or character presentations.  Naturalist Programs are unlike day-classes; they are designed to help students begin to wind-down after an exciting day, they may include other schools, and be presented to groups of up to 250 people. Due to staff availability, Eagle Bluff will choose these programs for you based on your students ages.  You may rank your Naturalist Program preferences on your , but our ability to accommodate requests may be limited.
Scheduling and Billing Form
: Aliens are invading our planet. not Martians, but exotic plants and animals are taking over where they don't belong. Learn about the harm they cause and if anything can be done to stop them.Alien Invasion
 A humorous local character visits Eagle Bluff and shares knowledge of local natural history and animal adaptations.  This program is designed to highlight general environmental concepts.Backwoods Buttercup:
  Discover the amazing truth about bats as you explore bat adaptations, myths, and how a decreasing bat population affects us all.Bats:
  Caves are a fascinating result of the Karst geology defining the landscape of Southeastern Minnesota.  Learn how caves form, what special creatures inhabit caves, and why they indicate a unique subsurface highly vulnerable to contamination.Cave Ecology:
  One of the most adaptable mammals in the world, the coyote is wide spread not only in range but also in mythology and folk lore.  Learn why the coyote is such a successful survivor and the topic of so many stories.Coyotes:
  Groups of insects found in Minnesota and their role in natural communities will be the highlight of this amazing program.  Fascinating insects from around the world will also be discussed and looked at in a new light.Insects:
  The constellations we see in the night sky have fascinated people for thousands of years.  Connections to Greek and Roman mythology as well as Native American stories and beliefs are presented through storytelling.Legends in the Sky:
  Even on a cloudy night the stars are spectacular!  Take a tour of the universe as scientists now understand it.  Emphasis is placed on stellar evolution, unique features of our universe, and a brief tour of our solar system.Our Place in Outer Space:
  Live raptors will be featured including a Barred owl, Red-tailed hawk, and an American kestrel.  Natural history information and the importance of raptors in a healthy ecosystem will be covered.Raptors:
  Often misunderstood, reptiles can evoke strong emotions.  With the help of a live snake, students will learn about Minnesota reptiles, conservation efforts, intriguing facts, and reptile’s amazing adaptations.Reptiles:
  Students will be introduced to four people who helped plan, build, and maintain the Root River Power and Light Company in the early 1900s right here at Eagle Bluff.  Experience first hand the story associated with the great undertaking of the hydroelectric dam.Root River Power and Light Company:
  Eagle Bluff has our very own planetarium!  Students will learn how our view of the constellations change with the seasons and some of the stories associated with constellations.  Due to seating limitations, this program is only available to 60 students each night.STARLAB:
  Two feisty forest spirits help the audience compare and contrast tropical and temperate forests during this presentation.  Natural history, interrelationships among forest dwellers, similarities and differences between forest types, and positive and negative human impacts will be presented.A Tale of Two Forests:
Bluff Rattler, Ol’ Velvet Tail, or Timber Rattlesnake; no matter what you call it, the Timber Rattler is one of the most unique and specialized animals in Southeastern Minnesota.  Students will learn about Timber Rattlesnake adaptations, yearly cycle, behavior, and conservation management.Timber Rattler: 
© 2006 Eagle Bluff Environmental Learning Center | All Rights Reserved