Back to Top
Farm Practices
Several approaches to farming allow us to grow our produce and manage our livestock in a manner that is good for the environment, the animals we keep, and our customers:
is vital to the health of our farm and is used to minimize external nutrient inputs to the farm and avoid nutrient loss into surface and ground water. Pictured is one of our steers grazing a rye-crimson clover cover crop on the market garden area.
Nutrient Cycling
Biodiversity and natural ecosystem processes are conserved through The farm benefits through enhanced beauty and by maintaining trees that are good for honey production, shading our chickens and livestock, eliminating erosion, and minimizing our need for grid power to heat or cool our home. Pictured is sourwood - a favorite tree of bees.
Agroforestry.
The farm is located in the upper reaches of the Cane Creek Reservoir watershed and is a focus on the farm. We take care to eliminate erosion and animal waste run-off. This is our farm pond.Water Conservation
We use for all of our animals; Our chickens and livestock are frequently moved to clean and nutritious paddocks on our farm. This picture shows how steers are followed by goats which are followed by laying hens.
Rotational Grazing
 
We are happy to say that all of our farm vehicles use 100% . Not only is this a renewable, non-polluting alternative to petroleum diesel, but it is produced only 35 miles from Fickle Creek Farm. This is a picture of Piedmont Biofuels' logo onour farm biodiesel tank.Biodiesel
We believe it is best to participate maximally in the by purchasing and selling as close to home as possible. For example, we have purchased all our livestock within 30 miles of the farm, our layer feed is milled in Durham, and our most distant point of sales is 25 miles from the farm.Local Economy
 
 
As a holistic system, we focus on in our landscape so that the beings which were here first, from micro-organisms to large mammals, have the best chance of continuing in a balanced ecosystem. This is the scarlet hibiscus, one of our favorite southeast natives.Native Plants
 
Adhering to principles means that each part of our diverse farm benefits from and is a benefit to several other pieces of our overall operation. Pictured is our pigs benefiting from the output from our market garden.Permaculture