How to Clean a Trombone Sign In Sign Up — It's Free!
Forgot Password?
Forgot your Password? Enter your username or email address in the box and you will recieve a link through your email with instructions on how to reset your password.
Email
How to Clean a Trombone
Viewing videos requires the latest version of Adobe's Flash Player. .
Dennis Garrels has been a professional musician for thirty years, playing in the Los Angeles area where he also teaches. He is also a minister of the church. Dennis Garrels read more
Email this video to a friend
How to Clean a TromboneTitle:
How to Play the TrombonePart of the Series:
(separate email addresses with a comma)To
From
Reply to this comment
Showing 1-1 of 1 comments
Have a question about this video topic? Ask our community members and let them share their knowledge with you!
Ask A Question
You must sign in to perform that task.
Don't have an account? Click to sign up for FREE!Log In Now!
Enter the letters you see below
I would like to receive the Expert Village Video of the Day
Date of Birth:
We ask our new members to enter this text in order to complete their registration. We do this to prevent not-so-nice people from writing programs to create accounts on Expertvillage.com automatically for not-so-nice purposes.
Video Transcript
How to Clean a Trombone
Hi, Dennis Garrels maintaining the trombone, Expert Village. It's important to have your horn properly lubricated properly cleaned and polished. This horn is from the 70's it's a desired horn by many trombone players looking for a king and they look for a silver king all times to get a certain tone. So this horn is pretty polished even though it's from that era polish the horn with nothing but water. In a soft cloth don't be putting car cleaner on it and car polish and crazy stuff like that and dish washer detergent. Youre going to possible take some of the medals off there, some of the horn players take everything off their horns. Don't do that, keep your horn shiny, they got brushes at the stores, this is a clean mouth piece put little brushes for the mouth piece in the kitchen, in the bathroom sink and clean that off. Use a Kleenex and clean the mouth piece, lubricating this instrument is simpler that a trumpet or a French horn but still pay close attention. Your tuning slide is in the back of your horn below of the weight that keeps it balanced, put a little bit of Vaseline on there and it lasts for months and months. Wipe the remainder off, there's a cork at the spit valve and there are corks inside the slide to actually cushion the slide when it comes back towards your jaw. So in case of coming back towards your jaw you don't harm your teeth or your lip.
Watch these related videos