 
SDA and the Client
SDA has made a virtue of specialisation. We deal only in the areas of broadcast that we understand. The most buoyant and busy area of business is concentrated in Presentation and Programme Planning.
However, as the broadcast industry has evolved, we too have responded to that change. Jobs no longer fit into the neat pigeon holes they once did, and demand has grown for a more multi-skilled and flexible workforce, who are prepared to take on a variety of tasks, and respond to the changing needs of the business.
Of course the traditional roles still exist, and we have plenty of skilled and professional candidates willing and eager to take on these challenges. But equally we are able to source a range of candidates with a broad skills base, for example foreign languages coupled with live transmission and multi-channel scheduling experience.
It is always worth giving us a call or emailing us BEFORE you advertise. We can normally tell you within 24 hours, or less in some cases, whether or not we are going to be able to help. This saves you having to wade through that mountain of, mainly unsuitable, CVs.
Presentation Scheduling Planning Airtime Management Media Planning Advertising Sales Traffic Interactive and Enhanced Services Account Management Acquisitions Audience Research
Audio Description Subtitling Compliance Channel Management Operations Library Post Production VOD NVOD IPTV Content Marketing and Delivery
The True Benefits of SDA
Over twenty years experience in television - specifically in Presentation / Planning / Commercial Airtime and Sales Liaison
Practical and direct hands-on knowledge of the jobs involved
Every candidate is interviewed by us personally before being presented to clients
Extensive team building and management experience - we know the sort of people you want
Confidential and discreet
Reliable and flexible service
Takes the hard work out of finding the right person for your vacancy
Deal direct - each search project tailor-made to your requirements - we welcome an opportunity to come and discuss your recruitment project with you if you wish
Can respond quickly - and there is no fee unless an offer of employment is made and accepted
We make it our responsibility to find out as much about the job and nature of your business as we can. In this way we can select candidates that not only fit the job specification, but also will fit in with the team and the culture of the company
We won't send you Production Staff - because we don't deal in Production
SDA takes the laborious and time-consuming part of recruitment away from you Drawing on a variety of sources, you will be presented with a selection of candidates customised to your Job and Person Specifications
SDA has a policy of declining vacancies where we have no obvious suitable candidates to present. This action is taken to ensure that no time is wasted by the client in using other means such as advertising, to fill the vacancy
We will tailor our services to achieve your objectives.
 
Candidates