Printable Version
The Photoelectric Effect
To broaden their scientific perspective on a new generation of silicon PV devices, the U.S. Department of Energy's National Renewable Energy Laboratory has pioneered a new class of materials — — which may have application in the photovoltaic and microelectronics industries. To date, the scientists have deposited and characterized 50 microcrystalline silicon films.microcrystalline silicon alloys
In 1839, Edmond Becquerel discovered the process of using sunlight to produce an electric current in a solid material. But it took more than another century to truly understand this process. Scientists eventually learned that the photoelectric or photovoltaic (PV) effect caused certain materials to convert light energy into electrical energy at the atomic level.
The photoelectric effect is the basic physical process by which a PV cell converts sunlight into electricity. When light shines on a PV cell, it may be reflected, absorbed, or pass right through. But only the absorbed light generates electricity.
The energy of the absorbed light is transferred to electrons in the atoms of the PV cell. With their newfound energy, these electrons escape from their normal positions in the atoms of the semiconductor PV material and become part of the electrical flow, or current, in an electrical circuit. A special electrical property of the PV cell—what we call a "built-in electric field"—provides the force, or voltage, needed to drive the current through an external "load," such as a light bulb.
To induce the built-in electric field within a PV cell, two layers of somewhat differing semiconductor materials are placed in contact with one another. One layer is an "n-type" semiconductor with an abundance of electrons, which have a negative electrical charge. The other layer is a "p-type" semiconductor with an abundance of "holes," which have a positive electrical charge.
Although both materials are electrically neutral, n-type silicon has excess electrons and p-type silicon has excess holes. Sandwiching these together creates a p/n junction at their interface, thereby creating an electric field.
When n- and p-type silicon come into contact, excess electrons move from the n-type side to the p-type side. The result is a buildup of positive charge along the n-type side of the interface and a buildup of negative charge along the p-type side.
Because of the flow of electrons and holes, the two semiconductors behave like a battery, creating an electric field at the surface where they meet—what we call the . The electrical field causes the electrons to move from the semiconductor toward the negative surface, where they become available to the electrical circuit. At the same time, the holes move in the opposite direction, toward the positive surface, where they await incoming electrons.p/n junction
How do we make the p-type ("positive") and n-type ("negative") silicon materials that will eventually become the photovoltaic (PV) cells that produce solar electricity? Most commonly, we add an element to the silicon that either an extra electron or an electron. This process of adding another element is called doping.haslacks
To learn more about PV physics, see: