 
Sexual neutral periods alternate with those where females are ready for coupling, and that are known as heat periods and estro. Female dogs don't have heat periods only in spring or autumn, as is usually said. Distinct to other animals (sheep, deer), seasons hardly influence them, so they follow their own rythm, that may be very different between breeds and concrete animals, but is almost constant in each being. The average interval between two heat periods goes from 6 to 7 months. According to a rule, bigger breeds have longer intervals than smaller ones. Two recognized exceptions are those of the dachshund, from 7 to 8 months, and German shepherd from 4 to 5 months.The female receives the semen from different males for a whole week, if she has the opportunity of course, and only then her ovules can be fecundated. This explains why a litter may be formed not only of pure breed puppies, but also half-breeds. This means that as an owner, you have to watch carefully, even after the pure breed male has done his job. Apart from that, in a mixed litter with the participation of several fathers, those puppies from a pure breed will be absolutely perfect. Though some breeder may doubt, those puppies will have no defect. As we can see, heat period brings home dirty and disturbances, besides a noisy puppies litter, perhaps at an inappropriate moment. Therefore, you can always have the last word if you want to prevent it. Methods go from delaying and inhibiting heat periods till castration.
Dog Heat Cycle Period
 
 
The first signs in young females appear usually between six and 8 months, though heat period properly does not appear till 10 to 12 months.
Register the appearance of this signs in your female, so you won't be surprised when heat period arrives; you can fit your schedules to it (trips). But specially will help you to have an excellent control over her sexual health. In fact, any important deviation of individual rhythm indicates some disturbance. Precise chronological registration of the sexual cycle is basic for a successful application of heat period inhibition methods. The conduct of your domestic mate is generally different through this period. At the beginning, sexual odor attracts male dogs, though the angry female will frighten them away with bites.
Don't be fooled, however, by that rejecting behavior of your female dog, especially in the final phase of the period; once your attention diminishes, the female will be suddenly active losing any inhibition. Female dogs are different from every other animal due to a special fact: they are ready to be mounted from 6 to 8 days, and during this time accept any male. Fecondation, however, takes place at the end of this period.
 