Oregon Grange
Miscarriage of Justice for Border Patrol Agents Jose Compean and Ignacio Ramos
During the month of February, 2005, U.S. Border Patrol Agents Jose Compean and Ignacio Ramos tried to stop a drug smuggler by the name of Osbaldo Aldrete-Davila who brought approximately 800 pounds of marijuana (worth about $1 million dollars) across the U.S. & Mexico border in his van. While being arrested, the smuggler scuffled with Agent Compean, knocking him down and throwing dirt in his eyes. Osbaldo Aldrete-Davila, then on foot, ran back to Mexico, crossing the shallow Rio Grande River. During this process of fleeing, the smuggler was pointing a gun at Agent Compean, who in turn fired shots at the suspect. Agent Ramos, seeing his partner battered and bloody, also fired shots at the smuggler. The border patrol agents were unaware that one of their bullets struck smuggler Aldrete-Davila in the buttocks.Whereas:
Border Patrol Agent Rene Sanchez, a naturalized citizen of the United States, who is suspected of ties to the Mexican drug cartels, is a boyhood buddy of Aldrete-Davila. Agent Sanchez encouraged Aldrete-Davila to bring a lawsuit against agents Compean and Ramos for violating his "civil rights".Whereas:
U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and Department of Homeland Security (DHS) sent agents to Mexico to find Aldrete-Davila to offer him immunity and free medical care and to bring him back to testify against agents Compean and Ramos. The DOJ and DHS officials helped Aldrete-Davila launch a lawsuit for $5 million dollars against the Border Patrol.Whereas:
During the trial, while waiting to testify against agents Compean and Ramos, Aldrete-Davila was arrested for attempting to bring another load of drugs into the United States of America. The prosecutors set him free and suppressed this information so it wouldn't harm the case against agents Compean and Ramos by prosecutor Debra Kanof, Judge Kathleen Cardone and the Department of Homeland Security.Whereas:
Border Patrol Agents Jose Compean and Ignacio Ramos were convicted of a crime through lies told at their trial by drug smuggler Osbaldo Alrete-Davila. Agent Compean was sentenced to eleven years in jail, and agent Ramos was sentenced to twelve years. On January 17, 2007, these agents began serving their prison sentences.Whereas:
The Federal Court trial of agents Compean and Ramos has all the ear markings of a frame up, in order to send a loaded message to other Border Patrol Agents, that if you confront smugglers, you will get what happened to agents Compean and Ramos.Whereas:
The whole affair has bankrupted the Compean and Ramos families, causing them to lose their homes, their savings accounts, their Border Patrol jobs, future retirement pay, and their children will grow up without their father's guidance. All of these losses for doing their jobs as border patrol agents.Whereas:
On January 18, 2007, 70 members of Congress signed onto H.R. 563, which requests that the convictions of Compean and Ramos be vacated and that they be released from custody immediately. House Concurrent Resolutions 37 requests that the president should swiftly and unconditionally pardon Agents Compean and Ramos.Whereas:
That the Oregon State Grange supports H.R. 563, which requests that the convictions of Compean and Ramos be vacated and that they be released from custody immediately, and be it further resolved: that the Federal Government reinstate Compean and Ramos to their jobs as agents of the U.S. Border Patrol, and reimburse the agents for all of the costs and losses they have incurred while trying to defend themselves against a court of injustice.Therefore be it resolved:
This resolution was adopted by the Deer Creek Grange #371 at its regular meeting held on May 14, 2007.
This resolution was adopted by the Oregon State Grange at its 134th Annual Session held at Jefferson, Oregon, week of June 17-22, 2007.
William D. Waggoner, Master 1920 Thompson Creek Rd. Selma, OR 97538
Delaine Sherman, Secretary P.O. Box 871 Selma, OR 97538
Sign-up for our free e-mail News Flash Alerts!
 
The US~Observer believes in our country, our constitution, and the public right to adequate representation.
The US~Observer is designed to keep the innocent free, the public informed, and our form of government controlled by the people.
We survive, in part, by gracious donations. They may be sent to:
US~Observer 233 Rogue River Hwy. PMB 387 Grants Pass, OR 97527-5429
or you can click here:
 