Midwest Meanderings
Almost a century before it would become famous as the hometown of Larry Bird, French Lick, Indiana was an internationally acclaimed resort destination, with travelers coming from all over the world to enjoy the comforts and healing spring waters of the . Rockefellers have stayed here, as have Vanderbilts. Franklin D. Roosevelt enjoyed French Lick, as did Louis Armstrong and Bing Crosby.     Thanks to a jaw-dropping $382 million renovation—including a meticulous restoration of the resort’s Donald Ross Course in conjunction with The Donald Ross Society—French Lick’s glory days have returned. The Ross Course (which hosted the 1924 PGA Championship) may now be the most authentic example of the great designer’s work: 35 original bunkers have been restored—complete with the Ross-styled deep faces and flat bottom surfaces—and the greens have been expanded to their original shapes. Design buffs can play the course at its original length from the Ross Tees, while those wanting an even stiffer challenge can head back to the Medal Tees, which stretch the course to more than 7,000 yards.     A new chapter to French Lick’s golf history is currently being written, with a Pete Dye design set to open in 2009, which will offer spectacular views of southern Indiana’s gently rolling hills.      Guests at French Lick can choose from one of two historic hotels—French Lick Springs or West Baden Springs. In addition to golf, you can enjoy Vegas-style gaming in the 84,000-square-foot casino, fishing, boating, horseback riding, bowling or you can relax at the spa, where you can still enjoy the healing waters of the Pluto Mineral Spring that first drew visitors to the resort. You’ll find more than a dozen different dining options at French Lick, including the resort’s signature 1875 Steakhouse.     In the northern part of the state, (, 574-935-5680) is the perfect destination for the golfer who is serious about his game. Swan Lake is home to one of the country’s most acclaimed—and longest-running—golf schools. The United States Golf Academy has been introducing beginners to the game—as well as honing the games of professionals—since 1971. And although the school has been in operation for 37 years, the facilities and teaching methods are state-of-the-art. Your full swing will benefit from computerized ballflight and swing analysis systems, while your putting mechanics will be refined with PuttLab, which uses ultrasound to measure and assess your stroke. Both indoor and outdoor practice facilities are available, as is a five-hole practice course. And if your new swing is worthy of new sticks, you can take advantage of one of the game’s most thorough club-fitting systems to ensure you find the perfect set to complement your swing dynamics.     When it’s time to take your game to the course, you’ll have two courses from which to choose at the resort’s Indiana National Golf Club. The East Course is the tougher test of the two, and has hosted a variety of collegiate and Indiana amateur events. It’s not exceptionally long—playing to less than 7,000 yards from the tips—but with water in play on no less than 14 holes, you’ll need to control your golf ball to score.     The West Course is fun and scenic. It’s no pushover, but wider fairways and larger greens make the course more forgiving than the East. The courses are a great value, as well, with green fees of $52 on weekdays and $60 on the weekends.     You can opt for a deluxe room or suite in the main building and cottages are available, too. But we suggest you rent one of the four log cabins (which sleep 10) located in secluded, wooded areas on the property.
French Lick Resort and Casino( FrenchLick.com , 888-MY-HIDEAWAY)
Swan Lake Golf Resort SLResort.com
Related Links: