Patch of the North Dakota Highway Patrol.
Logo of the North Dakota Highway Patrol.
Agency Overview
135 (as of 2004) [3]
Civilians
57 (as of 2004) [4]
Agency executive
The current is Col. . Superintendent of the North Dakota Highway Patrol Mark Nelson
North Dakota state troopers, when hired, attend the Law Enforcement Training Academy at . It is a 22-week program in which the recruits learn all peace officer standards and training as well as advanced traffic information. Bismarck
Major activities of the State Patrol include: traffic enforcement, crash investigation, reporting road conditions, and enforcement of laws where state property is concerned. A major duty of a North Dakota state trooper is the ability to work independently and exercise good judgement accordingly. This may differ from other peace officer agencies where operations are teamwork oriented.
Contents
[] edit Regions
North Dakota Highway Patrol Crown Victoria, K-9 Unit
There are 4 newly formed regions for the North Dakota Highway Patrol, which combine the former 8 districts:
Northeast Region: Grand Forks and Devils Lake
Southeast Region: Fargo and Jamestown
Southwest Region: Bismarck and Dickinson
Northwest Region: Minot and Williston
Troopers work within their regions, however they have equal jurisdiction throughout the state.
[] edit Highway Patrol symbol
The North Dakota Highway Patrol symbol is a profile of Red Tomahawk, a Teton Dakotah () who lived on his land near the on the near . Sioux Indian Cannonball River Standing Rock Indian Reservation Mandan, North Dakota
Red Tomahawk, a subchief, served as a government policeman helping to create order in a time of turbulence. He was considered a champion of his people, a noble American, and a just man. Today his profile reminds travelers of the first people to roam the plains.
The North Dakota Highway Patrol officially adopted the profile of Red Tomahawk as the patrol vehicle door emblem and department symbol in 1951. [5]
[] edit Superintendents of the North Dakota Highway Patrol
#