Jump to: , navigation search
(, - , ) was one of the great composers of . His work was incredibly popular during his lifetime and still remains popular.
Giuseppe Fortunino Francesco Verdi October 10 1813 January 27 1901 Italian opera
Born in the in , at that time under 's occupation, he moved to in where he started his musical studies with . Verdi is also known as "the swan from Busseto". Duchy of Parma Le Roncole Napoleon Busseto 1824 Ferdinando Provesi
He composed an overture for 's (), then he moved to Milan, where he wasn't accepted at the conservatory, so he had private studies with . Gioacchino Rossini Il barbiere di Siviglia The Barber of Seville Vincenzo Lavigna
In , the leading editor bought his copyrights and this business would last for the rest of his life, passing through the generations of Ricordi's family, with Tito and Giulio Ricordi being considered as part of his family. 1838 European musical Giovanni Ricordi
In his first real success was , which followed two earlier operas, (opened in on , ) and (the latter his only attempt at writing a comedy until , at the end of his career) at , with , , in the part of . The singer became his mistress and, long after the death of his first wife, Verdi would marry her. 1842 Nabucco Oberto, conte di San Bonifacio Milan November 17 1839 Un giorno di regno Falstaff La Scala theatre Giuseppina Strepponi soprano Abigaille
After the success of (, , ), also increased by some aspects of the political situation (see below), scored a triumph in in . I lombardi alla prima crociatta Milan February 11 1843 Ernani La Fenice theatre Venice
The following year, and would enforce his fame, but Verdi did not find the rendering of his scripts by La Scala theatre sufficient, so he asked Ricordi not to allow any more productions of his opera in Milan; , and were premiered in other Italian towns. was seen in . Giovanna d'Arco La forza del destino Attila Alzira Macbeth I masnadieri London
While Milan was lost and reconquered by the , Verdi wrote , , and , and started a which he would never finish. After the polemics for his , in was a triumph in , and in he had another great success with (in ) but a very sad fiasco for the first soirées of . Austrians Il corsaro La battaglia di Legnano Luisa Miller Manon Lescaut Stiffelio 1851 Rigoletto Venice 1853 Il trovatore Rome La traviata
Other famous operas follow in this period: () (), (a revision of ), (La Fenice), and (which was censored). He then assisted at the (he was also elected Deputy) and made minor revisions to previous works until , when was first seen in Paris.[[Les v pres siciliennes]] I vespri siciliani Paris Aroldo Stiffelio Simon Boccanegra Un ballo in maschera birth of the Kingdom of Italy 1866 Don Carlos
It was in that was performed at La Scala with great success. It had been composed for the , on the occasion of the inauguration of a new opera house in , and not for the opening of the Suez Canal as often mentioned. 1872 Aida Egyptian Khedive Cairo
Some troubles occurred in his relationship with the Ricordi editors, who were suspected of irregularities concerning huge amounts of money. However, a few years later it was Giulio Ricordi who proposed , which had its premiere in . would follow after other revisions of older works. Otello 1887 Falstaff
Verdi's works happened to have some resonances with Italian nationalism (e.g. "Chorus of the Hebrew Slaves" in , also known as (lyrics with translation here - MP3: ), which still in modern times has repeatedly been proposed as a possible Italian national anthem - obviously, there is no reference to racism). More curiously, someone discovered that his surname, Verdi, is the acronym of (Victor Emmanuel King of Italy), when (still under Austrian occupation) was beginning to consider supporting Victor Emmanuel's effort in Italian reunification, as it afterwards did. Clandestine partisans started therefore plotting to have this King of conquer Milan and, due to severe Austrian censorship, this campaign was conventionally called "Viva VERDI" ("long live V.E.R.D.I."). The composer was aware of this use of his name and is supposed to have consented. Other references to political events have been seen in his .NabuccoVa' Pensiero pensiero [1] Vittorio Emanuele Re D'Italia Milan Sardinia I Lombardi
He died of a stroke in 1901 in after the completion of his "Casa di Riposo", a retirement villa for poor artists. His funeral was extremely well attended, and a quarter of a million mourners were present to show their respect to one of the most important figures in Italian music. Milan