........ are a UK-based with a six-piece line-up of some of the West Country's finest musicians. Although only launched during early 2007, they have already received glowing praise for their accurate rendition of some of Pink Floyd's classic material. In the Flesh's attention to detail sets them apart from other Floyd tribute bands and this is reflected in the warm response from their rapidly expanding fan base. With a hugely impressive sound and light rig and a performance of more than two hours, featuring some of Pink Floyd's timeless music, this is a tribute show for all true Floyd fans. Here are some extracts from the band's online guest book, from people who have been to see themWelcomeIn the FleshPink Floyd tribute band
In the Flesh...
February sees us up in Scotland for three back to back shows culminating in the Laser Spectacular in Glasgow. The combination of classic Pink Floyd tracks and mind blowing laser light show will be an event not to be missed. Recreating the Pink Floyd concert experience and taking it to the highest degree possible, In The Flesh present a live reproduction of Floyd best known works from the psychedelic strains of The Piper at the Gates of Dawn through to the multi-million selling albums Meddle - The Dark Side of the Moon - Wish You Were Here and The Wall. Expect more than a few surprises in this three hour show. This six piece band have toured the UK to glowing praise for their attention to detail with a hugely impressive sound complimented by saxophones and backing vocalists. Their lighting rig also features the trademark and for the , a mindlowing This will be an amazing show for all Floyd fans and is not to be missed! confirmed for - on Saturday June 20th 2009 We are pleased to announce that Glenn Povey has taken over the sole management of the band. Glenn was the founder of the highly regarded Pink Floyd fan-magazine Brain Damage which he edited between 1985 and 1993. He was also responsible for launching the career of the Australian Pink Floyd Show, a band he subsequently managed for two years following their debut UK show at the first International Pink Floyd Fan-Convention, an event he organised at Wembley Stadium Conference Centre in 1993. An incurable Pink Floyd fan, he has also written, compiled and researched two books on the band: Pink Floyd: In The Flesh (Bloomsbury, 1997) and Echoes: The Complete History of Pink Floyd (Mind Head, 2007), which has now been translated into six languages.LATEST NEWS.
SCOTLAND 2009