Main article: History of the United States Navy
Origins
In the early stages of the , the establishment of an official navy was an issue of debate among the members of the . Supporters argued that a navy would protect shipping, defend the coast, and make it easier to seek out support from foreign countries. Detractors countered that challenging the , then the world's preeminent naval power, was a foolish undertaking. American Revolutionary War Continental Congress British Royal Navy [3]
While Congress deliberated, it received word that two unarmed British supply ships from England were heading towards without escort. A plan was drawn up to intercept the ships, however the armed vessels to be used were owned not by Congress, but by individual colonies. Of greater significance, then, was an additional plan to equip two ships that would operate under the direct authority of Congress to capture British supply transports. This was not carried out until , when announced that he had taken command of three armed schooners under Continental authority to intercept any British supply ships near Massachusetts. With the revelation that vessels were already sailing under Continental control, the decision to add two more was made easier; the resolution was adopted and October 13 would later become known as the United States Navy's official birthday. Quebec October 13 1775 George Washington [6] [7]
The Continental Navy achieved mixed results; it was successful in a few individual engagements and raided many British merchant vessels, but it lost 24 shipsand at one point was reduced to two in active service. As Congress turned its attention after the conflict towards securing the western border of the new United States, a standing navy was considered to be dispensable because of its high operating costs and its limited number of national roles. [8] [9] [3]
From reestablishment to the Civil War
The United States would be without a navy for nearly a decade — a state of affairs that exposed its merchant ships to a series of attacks by . The sole armed maritime presence between 1790 and the launching of the U.S. Navy's first warships in 1797 was the (USRCS), the primary "ancestor" of the U.S. Coast Guard. Although USRCS Cutters conducted operations against these pirates, the depredations far outstripped the abilities of the USRCS and Congress ordered the construction and manning of six frigates on ; three years later the first three were welcomed into service: the , and . Barbary pirates U.S. Revenue Cutter Service March 27 1794 [8] USS United States USS Constellation USS Constitution
battles in the . USS Constitution HMS Guerriere War of 1812
Following an undeclared with France, the U.S. Navy saw substantial action in the , where it defeated rival British frigates on more than one occasion and emerged victorious in freshwater battles at and . However, the U.S. Navy was not strong enough to prevent the British from blockading American ports and landing troops at will. After the war, the U.S. Navy again focused its attention on protecting American shipping assets, sending squadrons to the Caribbean, the Mediterranean, South America, Africa, and the Pacific. The United States went to war in 1846 and the Navy contributed by instituting a blockade, assisting the American takeover of , and participating in the U.S. military's first large-scale amphibious operation at . The United States Navy established itself as a player in American foreign policy through the actions of in Japan, which resulted in the in 1854. Quasi-War War of 1812 Lake Champlain Lake Erie [3] [8] against Mexico California Vera Cruz [3] Commodore Matthew Perry Convention of Kanagawa
Naval power would play a significant role during the , where the had a distinct advantage over the on the seas. A on shipping handicapped the Southern effort throughout the conflict. The two American navies would help usher in a new era in world naval history by putting into combat for the first time. The in 1862, which pitted against , became the first engagement between two steam-powered ironclads. Soon after the war, however, the U.S. Navy slipped into obsolescence because of neglect. Civil War Union Confederacy [3] Union blockade ironclad warships Battle of Hampton Roads USS Monitor CSS Virginia [9]
20th century
A modernization program beginning in the 1880s brought the U.S. into the first rank of the world's navies by the end of the century. In 1907, several of the Navy's ships, dubbed the , were showcased in a 14-month circumnavigation of the world. Ordered by , it was a mission designed to demonstrate the Navy's capability to extend to the global theater. Great White Fleet President Theodore Roosevelt [8]
The Navy saw little action during , but grew into a formidable force in the years before . Though ultimately unsuccessful, attempted to allay this strategic threat with the late-1941 surprise . Following American entry into the war, the U.S. Navy grew tremendously as the United States was faced with a two-front war on the seas. It achieved notable acclaim in the in particular, where it was instrumental to the Allies' successful "" campaign. The U.S. Navy participated in many significant battles, including the , the , the , the , and the . By war's end in 1945, the United States Navy had added hundreds of new ships, including 18 aircraft carriers and 8 battleships, and had over 70% of the world's total numbers and total tonnage of naval vessels of 1,000 tons or greater. World War I World War II Japan attack on Pearl Harbor Pacific Theater island hopping [9] Battle of the Coral Sea Battle of Midway Battle of the Philippine Sea Battle of Leyte Gulf Battle of Okinawa [10] [11]
(CV-5) under attack at the in . USS Yorktown Battle of Midway World War II
With the potential for armed conflict with the during the , the U.S. Navy continued to advance technologically by developing new weapons systems, ships, and aircraft. United States naval strategy changed to that of forward deployment in support of U.S. allies with an emphasis on carrier battle groups. The Navy was a major participant in the , blockaded Cuba during the , and, through the use of , became an important aspect of the United States' policy. The United States Navy conducted various combat operations in the Persian Gulf against Iran in 1987 and 1988, most notably . Soviet Union Cold War [12] Vietnam War Cuban Missile Crisis ballistic missile submarines nuclear strategic deterrence Operation Praying Mantis
21st century
The United States Navy continues to be a major support to American interests in the 21st century. Since the end of the Cold War, it has shifted its focus from a large-scale war with the Soviet Union to special operations and strike missions in regional conflicts. The Navy participated in , the , and the ongoing largely in this capacity. Development continues on new ships and weapons, including the aircraft carrier and the . Because of its size, weapons technology, and ability to project force far from American shores, the current U.S. Navy remains a potent asset for the United States (the ). [13] Operation Enduring Freedom Iraq War War on Terrorism CVN-21 Littoral combat ship Commander-in-Chief President of the United States
Organization
Image:US Navy organization.png
Simplified flowchart of U.S. Navy command structure
The Navy falls under the administration of the , under civilian leadership of the . The most senior naval officer is the , a four-star admiral who is immediately under and reports to the Secretary of the Navy. At the same time, the Chief of Naval Operations is one of the , which is the second-highest deliberatory body of the armed forces after the , although it only plays an advisory role to the President and does not nominally form part of the chain of command. The Secretary of the Navy and Chief of Naval Operations are responsible for organizing, recruiting, training, and equipping the Navy so that it is ready for operation under the command of the . Department of the Navy Secretary of the Navy (SECNAV) Chief of Naval Operations (CNO) Joint Chiefs of Staff United States National Security Council Unified Combatant Commanders
Operating forces
Main articles: and United States Navy operating forces organization List of units of the United States Navy
There are nine components to the of the U.S. Navy: , , Naval Forces Central Command, Naval Forces Europe, Naval Network Warfare Command, , , Operational Test and Evaluation Forces, and . Fleets in the United States Navy take on the role of force provider; they do not carry out military operations independently, rather they train and maintain naval units that will subsequently be provided to the naval forces component of each . While not widely publicized, groups of ships departing U.S. waters for operational missions gain a type designation, almost always with the Second or Third Fleets. On entry into another numbered fleet's area of responsibility, they are redesignated as a task group from that fleet. For example, a carrier task group departing the Eastern Seaboard for the Mediterranean might start out as Task Group 20.1; on entry into the Mediterranean, it might become Task Group 60.1. operating forces Atlantic Fleet Pacific Fleet Navy Reserve Naval Special Warfare Command Military Sealift Command Unified Combatant Command Task force
(CV-63) docks at the U.S. navy base in . USS Kitty Hawk Yokosuka, Japan
The United States Navy has five active numbered fleets — Second, Third, Fifth, Sixth, and Seventh — that are each led by a three-star Vice Admiral. These five fleets are further grouped under Fleet Forces Command (the former Atlantic Fleet), Pacific Fleet, Naval Forces Europe, and Naval Forces Central Command, whose commander also doubles as Commander ; these four commands are led by four-star full Admirals. The existed after the Second World War from 1947 at least, but it was redesignated Third Fleet in early 1973. Likewise, has not been in operation for some time and no other active fleet has been renamed as such. Fifth Fleet First Fleet [14] Fourth Fleet
Shore establishments
Shore establishment commands exist to support the mission of the afloat fleets through the use of facilities on land. Focusing on logistics and combat-readiness, they are essential for the full, smooth, and continuous operation of operating forces. The variety of commands reflect the complexity of the modern U.S. Navy and range from naval intelligence to personnel training to maintaining repair facilities. Two of the major logistics and repair commands are and . Other commands such as the , the , and the are focused on intelligence and strategy. Training commands include the and the . Naval Sea Systems Command Naval Air Systems Command Office of Naval Intelligence United States Naval Observatory Navy War College Naval Strike and Air Warfare Center United States Naval Academy
The Navy maintains several "Naval Forces Commands" which operate naval and serve as liaison units to local ground forces of the Air Force and Army. Such commands are answerable to a Fleet Commander as the shore protector component of the afloat command. During times of war, all Naval Forces Commands augment to become task forces of a primary fleet. Some of the larger Naval Forces Commands in the include (CNFK), (CNFM), and (CNFJ). shore facilities Pacific Ocean Commander Naval Forces Korea Commander Naval Forces Marianas Commander Naval Forces Japan
The hospital ship anchored near Jolo, . USNS Mercy Philippines
Military Sealift Command
Main article: Military Sealift Command
Military Sealift Command (MSC) serves not only the United States Navy, but the entire Department of Defense as the ocean carrier of during peacetime and war. It transports equipment, fuel, ammunition, and other goods essential to the smooth function of United States armed forces worldwide. Up to 95% of all supplies needed to sustain the U.S. military can be moved by Military Sealift Command. MSC operates approximately 120 ships with 100 more in reserve and is unique in that its ships are manned not by active duty Navy personnel, but by civil service or contract . materiel [15] merchant mariners
Relationships with other service branches
United States Marine Corps
Historically, the United States Navy has enjoyed a unique relationship with the (USMC), partly because they both specialize in seaborne operations. At the very top level of civilian organization, the USMC is part of the and reports to the . However, it is considered to be a distinct, separate service branch and not a subset of the Navy; the highest ranking Marine officer, the , does not report to a Navy officer. Marine Corps recipients are awarded the Navy variant and Marines are eligible to receive the . The trains Marine Corps commissioned officers while Navy officers undergo instruction by Marine NCO Drill Instructors, in addition to their normal Recruit Division Commander. United States Marine Corps Department of the Navy Secretary of the Navy Commandant of the Marine Corps Medal of Honor Navy Cross United States Naval Academy
The relationship extends to the operational theater as well. As amphibious assault specialists, Marines often deploy on and attack from Navy vessels; while being transported on a Navy ship, they must obey the orders of its captain. Marine strike-fighter air squadrons operate alongside Navy strike-fighter air squadrons from aircraft carriers, though they frequently have distinct missions and rarely fly sorties together; except to directly support Marine ground troops. Other types of marine air squadrons operate from amphibious assault ships in support of marine amphibious operations. The USMC does not train , and or medical doctors; thus officers and enlisted sailors from the Navy fulfill these roles. They generally wear Marine uniforms that are emblazoned with Navy insignia and markings to distinguish themselves from Marines. Corpsmen, Religious Program Specialists, and chaplains enjoy a great sense of camaraderie with the Marines due in part because they work closely with them and often are embedded with Marine units. They operate under the command of the Marine Corps under the auspices of the , often called "green side" corpsman. chaplains Religious Programs Specialists Hospital Corpsmen Fleet Marine Force [16]
United States Coast Guard
Although the applies only to the Army and Air Force, Department of Defense rules effectively require the Navy and Marine Corps to act as if Posse Comitatus did apply, preventing them from enforcing the law. The fulfills this role in naval operations. It provides (LEDETs) to Navy vessels, where they perform arrests and other law enforcement duties during Navy boarding and interdiction missions. In times of war, or when directed by the President, the Coast Guard operates as a service in the Navy and is subject to the orders of the Secretary of the Navy until it is transferred back to the . At other times, Coast Guard are sent overseas to guard the security of ports and other assets. The Coast Guard also jointly staffs the Navy's Naval Coastal Warfare Groups and Squadrons (the latter of which were known as until late-2004), which oversee defense efforts in foreign littoral combat and inshore areas. Posse Comitatus Act United States Coast Guard Law Enforcement Detachments Department of Homeland Security [] citation needed Port Security Units Harbor Defense Commands
Personnel
Image:Super Hornet launch.jpg
A "shooter" gives the signal to launch an from the (CVN-65). F/A-18 Super Hornet USS Enterprise
The United States Navy has nearly 500,000 personnel, approximately a quarter of whom are in ready reserve. Of those on active duty, more than eighty percent are sailors while make up around fifteen percent; the rest are of the (who are on active duty) and units at over 180 universities around the country. enlisted commissioned officers midshipmen United States Naval Academy NROTC [1]
Sailors prove they have mastered skills and deserve responsibilities by completing Personnel Qualification Standards (PQS) tasks and examinations. Among the most important is the "warfare qualification," which denotes a journeyman level of capability in Aviation Warfare, Naval Aircrew, Special Warfare, Surface Warfare, or Submarine Warfare. Many qualifications are denoted on a sailor's uniform with . U.S. Navy badges and insignia
Commissioned officer
See also: List of United States Navy staff corps
Commissioned officers in the Navy have pay grades ranging from O-1 to O-10, with O-10 being the highest; those with paygrades between O-1 through O-4 are considered junior officers and officers in the O-7 to O-10 range are called flag officers or the "admiralty." Promotion is based on performance in an officer's current paygrade, which is recorded in "FITREPS" (fitness reports), usually self-written by the officer and edited by superiors. Above the rank of Admiral is (O-11), which was awarded to a select few in World War II and is intended to be used only during a declared war. In 1899, a special rank called was created for , a war hero of the , with the condition that it would cease to exist upon his death. The honor was also significant because at that time, the United States Navy had no living admirals. Commissioned officers originate from the , (NROTC), (OCS), and a host of other commissioning programs such as the Seaman to Admiral-21 program, the Selection Program, and the . Fleet Admiral Admiral of the Navy George Dewey Spanish-American War [17] [18] United States Naval Academy Navy Reserve Officer Training Corps Officer Candidate School Limited Duty Officer United States Merchant Marine Academy
Commissioned officers can generally be divided into line officers and staff corps; line officers can be further split into unrestricted and restricted communities. are the warfighting command element and are authorized to lead ships, aviation squadrons, and special operations units. , on the other hand, concentrate on non-combat related fields, such as engineering and maintenance; they are qualified to command combat units. officers are specialists in fields that are themselves professional careers and not exclusive to the military, for example: medicine, law, and civil engineering. Unrestricted Line Officers Restricted Line Officers not Staff Corps
Commissioned Officer Rank Structure of the United States Navy