95 Bowflex exercises to choose from
Bowflex Ultimate 2?
Should you invest in a Bowflex Ultimate 2? Would it be the right Bowflex home gym for your needs?
The Ultimate 2 has many excellent features, such as:
310Ibs. of power rod resistance (upgradeable to 410Ibs.)
The "No-Change Cable System"
Below we look at the key-features of the Ultimate 2, who those features could benefit, and other Bowflex home gyms that may be a better choice.
- SPECIAL ALERT -
Bowflex Ultimate 2 Review - Key Features
95 Bowflex exercises to choose from
Keep your workouts fun and fresh with maximum exercise varietyBenefit -
310Ibs. of power rod resistance (upgradeable to 410Ibs)
Gives you the flexibility of having 410Ibs. of resistance without having 410Ibs. of iron in your homeBenefit -
Leg press
Enables you to train your legs without doing squatsBenefit -
Rowing machine feature
Allows you to use your Bowflex home gym for resistance training AND cardiovascular exerciseBenefit -
12 year warranty (unlimited warranty on power rods)
If anything ever breaks or wears out, just call Bowflex and they'll send out a new part - free of chargeBenefit -
Bowflex Review - Special Features
Enables you to isolate and train your bicepsBenefit -
Ab crunch attachment
Isolate and train your abdominalsBenefit -
Squat station
Much like a hack squat machine in the gym, the squat station empowers you to do squats with perfect form - so you can receive the best overall resultsBenefit -
No-Change Cable System
Enables you to go from one Bowflex exercise to another while keeping adjustments to your Bowflex to a minimumBenefit -
Should You Invest in the Bowflex Ultimate 2?
Who it would work best for:
You may also want to check out the
Experienced exercisers, athletes, people who want the maximum exercise variety
Who it would be the best choice for:might not
Beginners, people who just want a basic workout
The Bowflex Blaze offers:A more udget-friendlyoption?
60 exercises
210Ibs. of resistance (upgradeable to 310Ibs. or even 410Ibs)
Leg press
Rowing machine feature
5 year warranty (unlimited warranty on power rods)
It doesn have the special features of the Ultimate 2, but at $799, it has every thing you need to enjoy great results.
Do You Own a Bowflex?
Visitors to this page would love to know what your experiences with your Bowflex have been. Sharing your opinion is easy to do. Just type!... Your story will appear on a Web page exactly the way you enter it here. Don't worry, you'll be able to edit it on the next page.
Please enter your title (exp. "My Bowflex Review" "Why I Love My Bowflex" "What Buyers Should Know Before Getting a Bowflex Home Gym")
Please share your experiences (for questions visitors would love to ask you, please click the question mark)[ ] ?
Close Help
Entering your story is easy to do. Just type!... Your story will appear on a Web page exactly the way you enter it here. You can wrap a word in square brackets to make it appear bold. For example [my story] would show as on the Web page containing your story. TIP: Since most people scan Web pages, include your best thoughts in your first paragraph. Questions Visitors Would Love to Ask You:
my story
How well do you feel your Bowflex is made?
Have you found that your Bowflex has enough exercises for your needs?
Have you found that your Bowflex lives up to it's promises?
Have you found that your Bowflex has enough resistance?
Have you found that your Bowflex is better than other home gyms you've owned?
Have you found that your Bowflex is worth the money?
Would you recommend getting a Bowflex home gym? Which one?
Upload A Picture (optional)[ ] ?
Do you have a picture to add? Great! Click the button and find it on your computer. Then select it.
Add Picture Caption  (optional)
To receive credit as the author, enter your information below.
Your Name