"Yellowstone" redirects here. For other uses, see . Yellowstone (disambiguation)
Yellowstone National Park
Category II () IUCN National Park
Location
and counties in , and counties in and in , Park Teton Wyoming Park Gallatin Montana Fremont County Idaho USA
Nearest city
; ; West Yellowstone, Montana Gardiner, Montana Jackson, Wyoming
Coordinates
** Region as classified by UNESCO.
Historical poster of Yellowstone from 1938
, established by the as a on March 1, 1872, is located primarily in the of , though it also extends into and . The park was the first of its kind, and is known for its and , especially , one of the most popular features in the park. It has many types of , but the is dominant.Yellowstone National Park U.S. Congress [3] national park U.S. state Wyoming Montana Idaho wildlife its many geothermal features Old Faithful Geyser [1] ecosystems subalpine forest
have lived in the Yellowstone region for at least 11,000 years. The region was bypassed during the in the early 1800s. Aside from visits by during the early to mid-1800s, organized exploration did not begin until the late 1860s. The was commissioned to oversee the park just after its establishment. In 1917, administration of the park was transferred to the , which had been created the previous year. Hundreds of structures have been built and are protected for their architectural and historical significance, and researchers have examined more than 1,000 archaeological sites. Aboriginal Americans Lewis and Clark Expedition mountain men U.S. Army National Park Service
Yellowstone National Park spans an area of 3,468 square miles (8,983 km ), comprising lakes, canyons, rivers and . is one of the largest high-altitude lakes in North America and is centered over the , the largest on the continent. The caldera is considered an active volcano; it has erupted with tremendous force several times in the last two million years. Half of the world's geothermal features are in Yellowstone, fueled by this ongoing volcanism. flows and rocks from volcanic eruptions cover most of the land area of Yellowstone. The park is the centerpiece of the , the largest remaining, nearly-intact ecosystem in the Earth's northern temperate zone. mountain ranges [1] Yellowstone Lake Yellowstone Caldera supervolcano [4] Lava Greater Yellowstone Ecosystem [5]
Hundreds of species of mammals, birds, fish and reptiles have been documented, including several that are either or . The vast forests and grasslands also include unique species of plants. , , and free-ranging herds of and live in the park. occur in the park each year; in the of 1988, nearly one third of the park burned. Yellowstone has numerous recreational opportunities, including , , , and sightseeing. Paved roads provide close access to the major geothermal areas as well as some of the lakes and waterfalls. During the winter, visitors often access the park by way of guided tours that use either or . endangered threatened [1] Grizzlies wolves bison elk Forest fires large forest fires hiking camping boating fishing snow coaches snowmobile
Contents
[] edit History
The park is located at the headwaters of the , from which it takes its historical name. Near the end of the eighteenth century, named the river "Roche Jaune," which is probably a translation of the name "" (Rock Yellow River). Later, American trappers rendered the French name in English as "Yellow Stone." Although it is commonly believed that the river was named for the yellow rocks seen in the , the Native American name source is not clear. The human history of the park begins at least 11,000 years ago when aboriginal Americans first began to hunt and fish in the region. During the construction of the post office in , in the 1950s, an obsidian projectile point of origin was found that dated from approximately 11,000 years ago. These , of the Clovis culture, used the significant amounts of found in the park to make such and . made of Yellowstone obsidian have been found as far away as the , indicating that a regular obsidian trade existed between local tribes and tribes farther east. By the time first entered the region during the in 1805, they encountered the , and tribes. While passing through present day Montana, the expedition members were informed of the Yellowstone region to the south, but they did not investigate it. Yellowstone River French trappers Minnetaree Mi tsi a-da-zi [6] Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone [7] Gardiner, Montana Clovis [8] Paleo-Indians obsidian cutting tools weapons Arrowheads Mississippi Valley [9] white explorers Lewis and Clark Expedition Nez Perce Crow Shoshone [9]
Upper Falls of the Yellowstone River
In 1806, , a member of the Lewis and Clark Expedition, left to join a group of fur trappers. After splitting up with the other trappers in 1807, Colter passed through a portion of what later became the park, during the winter of 1807 1808. He observed at least one area in the northeastern section of the park, near . After surviving wounds he suffered in a battle with members of the Crow and tribes in 1809, he gave a description of a place of "fire and brimstone" that was dismissed by most people as delirium. The supposedly imaginary place was nicknamed "." Over the next forty years, numerous reports from mountain men and trappers told of boiling mud, steaming rivers and trees, yet most of these reports were believed at the time to be myth. John Colter geothermal Tower Fall [10] Blackfoot Colter's Hell petrified [11]
Sylvan Lake near the entrance to Yellowstone Cody
After an 1856 exploration, mountain man reported observing boiling springs, spouting water, and a mountain of glass and yellow rock. These reports were largely ignored because Bridger was known for being a "spinner of yarns". His stories did arouse the interest of explorer and geologist , who, in 1859, started a two-year survey of the upper region. Bridger and United States Army surveyor W.F. Raynolds acted as guides. After exploring the region in what is now the state of , the party neared the Yellowstone River, but heavy snows forced them to turn back. The hampered further organized explorations until the late 1860s. Jim Bridger Ferdinand Vandeveer Hayden Missouri River Black Hills South Dakota American Civil War [12]
The first detailed expedition to the Yellowstone area was the of 1869, which consisted of three privately funded explorers. The Folsom party followed the Yellowstone River to Yellowstone Lake. The members of the Folsom party kept a journal and based on the information it reported, a party of Montana residents organized the in 1870. It was headed by the surveyor-general of Montana , and included (who later became known as "National Park" Langford) and a U.S. Army detachment commanded by Lt. . The expedition spent about a month exploring the region, collecting specimens, and naming sites of interest. A Montana writer and lawyer named Cornelius Hedges, who had been a member of the Washburn expedition, proposed that the region should be set aside and protected as a National Park; he wrote a number of detailed articles about his observations for the newspaper between 1870 and 1871. Hedges essentially restated comments made in October 1865 by acting Montana Territorial Governor , who had previously commented that the region should be protected. Others made similar suggestions. In an 1871 letter from to Ferdinand Hayden, Cooke wrote that his friend, Congressman had also suggested " pass a bill reserving the Great Geyser Basin as a public park forever". Cook-Folsom-Peterson Expedition [13] Washburn-Langford-Doane Expedition Henry Washburn Nathaniel P. Langford Gustavus Doane Helena Herald Thomas Francis Meagher [14] Jay Cooke William D. Kelley Congress [15]
[] edit Park creation and later history
F.V. Hayden's map of Yellowstone National Park, 1871.
In 1871, eleven years after his failed first effort, F.V. Hayden was finally able to make another attempt to explore the region. With government sponsorship, Hayden returned to Yellowstone region with a second, larger expedition, the . He compiled a comprehensive report on Yellowstone, which included large-format photographs by , as well as paintings by . His report helped to convince the U.S. Congress to withdraw this region from public auction; on March 1, 1872, President signed into law that created Yellowstone National Park. Hayden Geological Survey of 1871 William Henry Jackson Thomas Moran Ulysses S. Grant The Act of Dedication [16]
THE ACT OF DEDICATION [3]
AN ACT to set apart a certain tract of land lying near the headwaters of the Yellowstone River as a public park. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the tract of land in the Territories of Montana and Wyoming lying near the headwaters of the Yellowstone River and described as follows, to-wit: Commencing at the junction of Gardiner's River with the Yellowstone River and running east to the meridian, passing ten miles (16 km) to the eastward of the most eastern point of Yellowstone Lake; thence south along the said meridian to the parallel of latitude, passing ten miles (16 km) south of the most southern point of Yellowstone Lake ; thence west along said parallel to the meridian, passing fifteen miles (24 km) west of the most western point of Madison Lake; thence north along said meridian to the latitude of the junction of the Yellowstone and Gardiner's Rivers; thence east to the place of beginning, is hereby reserved and withdrawn from settlement, occupancy, or sale under the laws of the United States, and dedicated and set apart as a public park or pleasuring ground for the benefit and enjoyment of the people; and all persons who shall locate, or settle upon, or occupy the same or any part thereof, except as hereinafter provided, shall be considered trespassers and removed there from.
SEC. 2. That said public park shall be under the exclusive control of the Secretary of the Interior, whose duty it shall be, as soon as practicable, to make and publish such rules and regulations as he may deem necessary or proper for the care and management of the same. Such regulations shall provide for the preservation from injury or spoliation of all timber, mineral deposits, natural curiosities or wonders within said park, and their retention in their natural condition. The Secretary may, in his discretion, grant leases for building purposes, for terms not exceeding ten years, of small parcels of ground, at such places in said park as shall require the erection of buildings for the accommodation of visitors; all of the proceeds of said leases, and all other revenue that may be derived from any source connected with said park, to be expended under his direction in the management of the same and the construction of roads and bridle-paths, and shall provide against the wanton destruction of the fish and game found within said park and against their capture or destruction for the purpose of merchandise or profit. He shall also cause all persons trespassing upon the same after the passage of this act to be removed there from, and generally shall be authorized to take all such measures as shall be necessary or proper to fully carry out the objects and purposes of this act.
Approved March 1, 1872.
, Speaker of the House. JAMES G. BLAINE
, Vice-President of the United States and President of the Senate. SCHUYLER COLFAX
, President of the United States. ULYSSES S. GRANT
(1870) Portrait of , the first superintendent of the park
Nathaniel P. Langford [17]
Nathaniel Langford was appointed as the park's first superintendent in 1872. He served for five years but was denied a salary, funding, and staff. Langford lacked the means to improve the land or properly protect the park, and without formal policy or regulations, he had few legal methods to enforce such protection. This left Yellowstone vulnerable to poachers, vandals, and others seeking to raid its resources. In 1875, Colonel , who had previously explored areas of Montana under the command of , was assigned to organize and lead an expedition to Montana and the newly established Yellowstone Park. Observations about the lawlessness and exploitation of park resources were included in Ludlow's The report included letters and attachments by other expedition members, including naturalist and mineralogist . Grinnell documented the poaching of buffalo, deer, elk and antelope for hides. "It is estimated that during the winter of 1874 1875, not less than 3,000 buffalo and mule deer suffer even more severely than the elk, and the antelope nearly as much." William Ludlow George Armstrong Custer Report of a Reconnaissance to the Yellowstone Nation Park. George Bird Grinnell [18]
As a result, Langford was forced to step down in 1877. Having traveled through Yellowstone and witnessed land management problems first hand, volunteered for the position following Langford's exit. Congress finally saw fit to implement a salary for the position, as well as to provide a minimal funding to operate the park. Norris used these funds to expand access to the park, building numerous crude roads and facilities. Norris hired to control poaching and vandalism in the park. Today, Harry Yount is considered the first national park ranger. However, these measures still proved to be insufficient in protecting the park, as neither Norris, nor the three superintendents who followed, were given sufficient manpower or resources. [19] [20] Philetus Norris [20] Harry Yount [21]
Fort Yellowstone, formerly a U.S. Army base, now serves as park headquarters.
The built a in , connecting to the northern entrance in the early 1880s, which helped to increase visitation from 300 in 1872 to 5,000 in 1883. Visitors in these early years were faced with poor roads and limited services, and most access into the park was on horse or via . By 1908 visitation increased enough to also attract a connection to West Yellowstone, though rail visitation fell off considerably by and ceased around the 1960s. Northern Pacific Railroad train station Livingston, Montana [22] stagecoach Union Pacific Railroad World War II
Ongoing poaching and destruction of natural resources continued unabated until the U.S. Army arrived at in 1886 and built Camp Sheridan. Over the next 22 years the army constructed permanent structures, and Camp Sheridan was renamed . With the funding and manpower necessary to keep a diligent watch, the army developed their own policies and regulations that permitted public access while protecting park wildlife and natural resources. When the National Park Service was created in 1916, many of the management principles developed by the army were adopted by the new agency. The army turned control over to the National Park Service on October 31, 1918. Mammoth Hot Springs Fort Yellowstone [23] [23] [24]
By 1915, 1,000 automobiles per year were entering the park, resulting in conflicts with horses and horse driven transportation. In subsequent years horse travel on roads was eventually prohibited. Between 1933 and 1941, the built the majority of the early visitor centers, campgrounds and the current system of park roads. During , staffing and visitation both decreased, and many facilities fell into disrepair. By the 1950s, visitation increased tremendously in Yellowstone and other national parks. To accommodate the increased visitation, park officials implemented , an effort to modernize and expand park service facilities. Planned to be completed by 1966, in honor of the 50th anniversary of the founding of the National Park Service, Mission 66 construction diverged from the traditional log cabin style with design features of a modern style. During the late 1980s, most construction styles in Yellowstone reverted back to the more traditional designs. After the enormous forest fires of 1988 damaged much of Grant Village, structures there were rebuilt in the traditional style. The visitor center at Canyon Village, which opened in 2006, incorporates a more traditional design as well. [25] Civilian Conservation Corps World War II [26] Mission 66 [27] [28]
The is located in at the North Entrance. The arch's was laid by . The placard reads
Roosevelt Arch Montana cornerstone Theodore Roosevelt "For the Benefit and Enjoyment of the People."
The just west of Yellowstone at damaged roads and some structures in the park. In the northwest section of the park, new geysers were found, and many existing hot springs became turbid. It was the most powerful earthquake to hit the region in recorded history. 1959 Yellowstone earthquake Hebgen Lake [29]
The during the summer of 1988 were the largest in the history of the park. Approximately 793,880 acres (1,240 sq mi; 321,272 ha) or 36% of the parkland was impacted by the fires, leading to a systematic reevaluation of fire management policies. The fire season of 1988 was considered normal until a combination of drought and heat by mid-July contributed to an extreme fire danger. On "Black Saturday," August 20, 1988, strong winds expanded the fires rapidly, and more than 150,000 acres (61,000 ha; 230 sq mi) were consumed. wildfires [30]
The expansive cultural history of the park has been documented by the 1,000 sites that have been discovered. The park has 1,106 historic structures and features, and of these and five buildings have been designated . Yellowstone was designated an on October 26, 1976, and a on September 8, 1978. archeological Obsidian Cliff National Historic Landmarks [1] International Biosphere Reserve United Nations World Heritage Site
Yellowstone Lake on an autumn morning
Map of Wyoming showing the Yellowstone National park
Approximately 96 percent of the land area of Yellowstone National Park is located within the state of Wyoming. Another 3 percent is within Montana, with the remaining 1 percent in Idaho. The park is 63 miles (102 km) north to south, and 54 miles (87 km) west to east by air. At 2,219,789 acres (898,317 ha; 3,468.420 sq mi), Yellowstone is larger than the states of and combined. Rivers and lakes cover 5 percent of the land area, with the largest water body being Yellowstone Lake at 87,040 acres (35,220 ha; 136.00 sq mi). Yellowstone Lake is up to 400 feet (122 m) deep and has 110 miles (177 km) of shoreline. At an elevation of 7,733 feet (2,357 m) above sea level, Yellowstone Lake is the largest high altitude lake in North America. Forests comprise 80 percent of the land area of the park; most of the rest is . Rhode Island Delaware grassland [1]
The of North America runs diagonally through the southwestern part of the park. The divide is a feature that separates and water drainages. About one third of the park lies on the west side of the divide. The origins of the Yellowstone and are near each other but on opposite sides of the divide. As a result, the waters of the Snake River flow to the Pacific Ocean, while those of the Yellowstone find their way to the Atlantic Ocean via the .
Continental Divide topographic Pacific Ocean Atlantic Ocean Snake Rivers Gulf of Mexico
Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone note the yellow color of the rocks from which the park gets its name
The park sits on the , at an average altitude of 8,000 feet (2,400 m) above . The plateau is bounded on nearly all sides by of the , which range from 9,000 to 11,000 feet (2,743 to 3,352 m) in elevation. The highest point in the park is atop (11,358 ft/3,462 m) and the lowest is along Reese Creek (5,282 ft/1,610 m). Nearby mountain ranges include the to the northwest, the in the north, the to the east, and the and the to the southwest and west. The most prominent summit on the Yellowstone Plateau is at 10,243 feet (3,122 m). Yellowstone Plateau sea level mountain ranges Middle Rocky Mountains Eagle Peak [1] Gallatin Range Beartooth Mountains Absaroka Range Teton Range Madison Range Mount Washburn
Yellowstone National Park has one of the world's largest , trees which were long ago buried by ash and soil and transformed from wood to mineral materials. There are 290 of at least 15 feet (4.5 m) in the park, the highest being the at 308 feet (94 m). petrified forests waterfalls Lower Falls of the Yellowstone River [1]
Two deep canyons are located in the park, cut through the volcanic tuff of the Yellowstone Plateau by rivers over the last 640,000 years. The flows through in the south, and the has carved the colorful in its journey north. Lewis River Lewis Canyon Yellowstone River Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone
Yellowstone mountain range
Main articles: , , and Geothermal areas of Yellowstone Yellowstone Caldera Supervolcano
Columnar basalt near Tower Falls; large floods of basalt and other lava types preceded mega-eruptions of superheated ash and pumice
Yellowstone is at the northeastern end of the , a great U-shaped arc through the mountains that extends from some 400 miles (640 km) to the west. This feature traces the route of the over the last 17 million years as it was transported by across a stationary . The landscape of present-day Yellowstone National Park is the most recent manifestation of this hotspot below the of the Earth. Snake River Plain Boise, Idaho North American Plate plate tectonics mantle hotspot crust [31]
Upper Terraces of
Mammoth Hot Springs
The is the largest volcanic system in North America. It has been termed a "" because the caldera was formed by exceptionally large explosive eruptions. The current caldera was created by a cataclysmic eruption that occurred 640,000 years ago, which released 240 cubic miles (1,000 km ) of ash, rock and materials. This eruption was 1,000 times larger than the . It produced a nearly a two thirds of a mile (1 km) deep and 52 by 28 miles (85 by 45 km) in area and deposited the , a . The most violent known eruption, which occurred 2.1 million years ago, ejected 588 cubic miles (2,450 km ) of volcanic material and created the rock formation known as the and created the . A smaller eruption ejected 67 cubic miles (280 km ) of material 1.2 million years ago, forming the and depositing the . Yellowstone Caldera supervolcano pyroclastic 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens [32] crater Lava Creek Tuff welded tuff geologic formation Huckleberry Ridge Tuff Island Park Caldera [33] Henry's Fork Caldera Mesa Falls Tuff [32]
Wooden walkways allow visitors to closely approach the .
Grand Prismatic Spring
Each of the three climax eruptions released vast amounts of ash that blanketed much of central North America falling many hundreds of miles away. The amount of ash and gases released into the atmosphere probably caused significant impacts to world weather patterns and led to the of many species, primarily in North America. extinction [34]
A subsequent minor climax eruption occurred 160,000 years ago. It formed the relatively small caldera that contains the of Yellowstone Lake. Later, two smaller eruptive cycles, the last one ending about 70,000 years ago, buried much of the caldera under thick lava flows. West Thumb [33]
Each eruption is in fact a part of an eruptive cycle that climaxes with the collapse of the roof of a partially emptied . This creates a crater, called a caldera, and releases vast amounts of volcanic material, usually through fissures that ring the caldera. The time between the last three cataclysmic eruptions in the Yellowstone area has ranged from 600,000 to 900,000 years, but the small number of such climax eruptions cannot be used to make a prediction for future volcanic events. magma chamber [35]
at
Steam Crepuscular rays Mammoth Hot Springs
Between 630,000 and 700,000 years ago, Yellowstone Caldera was nearly filled in with periodic eruptions of lavas such as those that can be seen at and lavas which can be viewed at . Lava strata are most easily seen at the Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone, where the Yellowstone River continues to carve into the ancient lava flows. The canyon is a classic , indicative of river-type erosion rather than erosion caused by . rhyolitic Obsidian Cliffs basaltic Sheepeater Cliff V-shaped valley glaciation
The most famous geyser in the park, and perhaps the world, is , located in . , and are in the same basin. The park contains the largest active geyser in the world in the . There are 300 geysers in Yellowstone and a total of at least 10,000 geothermal features altogether. Half the geothermal features and two-thirds of the world's geysers are concentrated in Yellowstone. Old Faithful Geyser Upper Geyser Basin Castle Geyser Lion Geyser Beehive Geyser Steamboat Geyser Norris Geyser Basin [36]
In May 2001, the U.S. Geological Survey, Yellowstone National Park, and the created the Yellowstone Volcano Observatory (YVO), a partnership for long-term monitoring of the geological processes of the Yellowstone Plateau volcanic field, for disseminating information concerning the potential hazards of this geologically active region. University of Utah [37]
erupts approximately every 91 minutes.
Old Faithful Geyser
In 2003, changes at the Norris Geyser Basin resulted in the temporary closure of some trails in the basin. New were observed, and several geysers showed enhanced activity and increasing water temperatures. Several geysers became so hot that they were transformed into purely steaming features; the water had become superheated and they could no longer erupt normally. This coincided with the release of reports of a multiple year United States Geological Survey research project which mapped the bottom of Yellowstone Lake and identified a structural dome that had uplifted at some time in the past. Research indicated that these uplifts posed no immediate threat of a volcanic eruption, since they may have developed long ago, and there had been no temperature increase found near the uplifts. On March 10, 2004, a biologist discovered 5 dead bison which apparently had inhaled toxic geothermal gases trapped in the Norris Geyser Basin by a seasonal atmospheric inversion. This was closely followed by an upsurge of earthquake activity in April 2004. In 2006, it was reported that the Mallard Lake Dome and the Sour Creek Dome areas that have long been known to show significant changes in their ground movement had risen at a rate of 1.5 to 2.4 inches (4 to 6 cm) per year from mid 2004 through 2006. As of late 2007, the uplift has continued at a reduced rate. These events inspired a great deal of media attention and speculation about the geologic future of the region. Experts responded to the conjecture by informing the public that there was no increased risk of a volcanic eruption in the near future. fumaroles [38] [39] [40] [41] [42] [43]
Castle Geyser eruption
Castle Geyser eruption, 1874
Yellowstone experiences thousands of small earthquakes every year, virtually all of which are undetectable to people. There have been six earthquakes with at least 6 or greater in historical times, including a 7.5 magnitude quake that struck just outside the northwest boundary of the park in 1959. This quake triggered a huge , which caused a partial dam collapse on ; immediately downstream, the from the landslide dammed the river and created a new lake, known as . Twenty-eight people were killed, and property damage was extensive in the immediate region. The earthquake caused some geysers in the northwestern section of the park to erupt, large cracks in the ground formed and emitted steam, and some hot springs' normally clear water turned muddy. A 6.1 magnitude earthquake struck inside the park on June 30, 1975, but damage was minimal. For three months in 1985, 3,000 minor earthquakes were detected in the northwestern section of the park, during what has been referred to as an earthquake swarm, and has been attributed to minor subsidence of the Yellowstone caldera. Beginning on April 30, 2007, sixteen small earthquakes with magnitudes up to 2.7 occurred in the Yellowstone Caldera for several days. These swarms of earthquakes are common, and there have been 70 such swarms between 1983 and 2008. In December 2008, over 250 earthquakes were measured over a four day span under Yellowstone Lake, the largest measuring a magnitude of 3.9.Seismic activity in Yellowstone National Park continues and is reported hourly by the Earthquake Hazards Program of the U.S. Geological Survey. magnitude landslide Hebgen Lake sediment Earthquake Lake [29] [32] [44] [45] [46]
[] edit Biology and ecology