Hawaiian tattoos
Flame tattoos can symbolize many things such as change, destruction, passion, light, sin, temptation, and wisdom. Sometimes, meanings are contradicting. You can find flame designs and symbolisms in various religious ceremonies and rituals and in mythologies. Here are some of the most popular meanings of flame tattoos.     Christianity uses flames in many biblical characters and events. Flame represents the Holy Ghost. Lucifer or Satan is always surrounded by flames which made flames as representations of temptation and sin. Not only this but when God talked to Moses, He appeared as a very bright flame. And hell was also described as flame. These could be religious meanings of flame tattoos.     Fires, especially conflagrations, do not choose which places to burn and no matter how much you try to contain it, it will still destroy everything in its path. Flame tattoos can also mean destruction based from this example.     Flame tattoos could also mean light. You know that the function of fire is to give heat and light.     Wisdom is probably one of the best meanings one could get from having flame tattoos. A flame means light and if there is light there is knowledge. When studying in the old days, people have to use candles to see what they need to know.     Flame tattoos also symbolize transformation. In the mythical bird phoenix die by being consumed by flames and later on will grow from his own ashes, as beautiful as before. People who wear flame tattoos sometimes look for change in their lives or a rebirth of something about themselves.
Flame Tattoos
Email What do Flame Tattoos Mean?
Looking For Tattoo Designs, Ideas, Pictures?
Congratulations! Your Search Is Over...
Check the Situation That Best Applies to You...And Then Click the Button Below to See the Best Tattoo Ideas and Designs
I want a great ideas for a new tattoo I would like to see some hot tattoo designs I am a tattoo artist searching for new tattoo ideas None of the above, I just want to see some great tattoo designs and ideas
(Click the button above to find out the unique tattoo designs)
Probably the best online tattoo gallery. 1000s of great quality tattoo designs. Check them out now!
Eagle Tattoos
Eagle Tattoos and Their Meanings Among the hundreds of species of birds on earth, eagle is probably the most popular bird in tattoo art. Eagle tattoos are considered as male tattoos. Having eagle tattoos is not just drawing a large bird on your body. Eagle tattoos actually mean several ...
All About Heart Tattoos
Heart tattoos are one of the most popular tattoo designs. They are either placed on the arms, wrists, lower part of the leg, or on the chest. Heart tattoos on the chest of the women are said to create a sexier image. For several decades in a row, tattoo enthusiasts ...
Sun Tattoos Meaning
The sun is, in any culture, one of the highest regarded symbols of humanity. In any mythology, you will find that the sun is depicted as one of the highest in a pantheon of gods. The sun gives light, heat and life. Ancient civilizations revered it as a ...
Bird Tattoo Designs
A tattoo is a great way of projecting your individuality and personality to the outside world. A tattoo tells others lots about your nature and approach to life. This is why it is important that lots of thought is placed on choosing the right tattoo design for yourself. You can choose tattoo designs based on ...
Zodiac Tattoos: Eternal Visions of Tattoos
The zodiac signs&the eternal symbolism of how man wants to take control of his own destiny. The irony though is tat he seeks the guidance of supernatural concepts. In our age of rational thinking and scientific-based concepts, it is still a great riddle why people entertain anything that ...
Flower tattoos
Flowers tattoos have a great deal with symbolism. Flowers are seen as the symbols of various kinds of emotional and divine feelings. As there are every flower has a different meaning which is given on arose day. Flower tattoos are the symbolization of characteristics for a people who love to ...
Snakes Tattoos
There is a whole world of tattoo designs for you to choose from if you decide to wear a tattoo. You can choose tattoos from the world of animals, birds, insects, special things and from the world of reptiles. Of the lot, many people like having snake tattoos placed on their bodies. These ...
Aztec Tattoos FAQ
Q: Are Aztec tattoos more expensive than other kinds? A: Not necessarily.  Just because a specific tattoo is more rare than others does not mean that it will be more expensive to apply.  The actual rates are more likely to be based on the size and complexity of the design rather than its popularity. Q: If my ...
Flame Tattoos 2006-2008 TodayTattoos.com