Arthritis Information
The Well-Balanced Diet for Arthritis
If you have , it is important that you eat a well-balanced diet and control your weight. A well-balanced diet can help you feel better and can be a positive step in dealing with arthritis. It can also help decrease your chances of developing or certain types of cancer. arthritis heart disease
 
Controlling your weight can help minimize stress on the weight-bearing joints, such as the knees, hips, and the joints of the feet. It can also minimize your risk of developing other health problems.
 
Some suggestions for eating a well-balanced diet and controlling your weight include:
 
Eat a heart-healthy diet. This diet should include foods such as:
 
Fruits, vegetables, grains, and fat-free or low-fat milk and milk products
Lean meats, poultry, fish, beans, eggs, and nuts.
 
Limit foods with saturated fats, trans fats, , sodium (salt), and added sugars. cholesterol
Get regular physical activity for at least 30 minutes a day on most days of the week.
Limit your intake of alcohol.
 
(Click for more suggestions on ways to stay active with arthritis. Click to see if your weight is within a healthy range.) Arthritis and Exercise BMI Calculator
 
Preventing Osteoporosis as Part of an Arthritis Diet
People who are taking glucocorticoids for arthritis or who have an inflammatory type of arthritis -- such as , , or lupus -- are at an increased risk of (bone thinning). Diet, along with other strategies, can play a role in preventing osteoporosis. Some recommendations for optimizing include: rheumatoid arthritis juvenile rheumatoid arthritis osteoporosis bone health
 
A balanced diet rich in and vitamin D. In most cases, 1000 milligrams of calcium per day is recommended. calcium
 
Weight-bearing exercises. Young people who exercise regularly achieve greater peak bone mass (maximum and strength) than those who do not. bone density
 
A healthy lifestyle with no smoking or excessive alcohol intake. Smoking and alcohol are linked to bone loss.
 
density testing and medication. Your doctor may also recommend these if you are at a high risk of developing osteoporosis. Bone
 
(Click for more information.) Arthritis and Osteoporosis
 