Posted  | By Monday, December 22, 2008 2:00 PM Moe Tkacik
E.J., I gotta say, . Here's the thing: Really, who cares. It "sends a message"nah, don't care. As , I'm finding it hard to be truly upset about this one. Maybe just distracted by my upsetness over the who will be "sending a policy" in the form of "trillions of dollars."
thank you for going through all the stages of grief re: Rick Warren so I didn't have to Peggy Noonan said of Jeremiah Wright questionable future regulators
So the guy is a huge homophobe: Meh, sorry Barney, still don't care. As you yourself have so often and I'm "addressing" Barney Frank here, for the record"the average American is less homophobic than he thinks he's supposed to be and more racist than he's willing to admit." Why is this? Well, statistically, the average American knows at least a handful of gay people. The average American knows a handful of women who've had abortions. The average American does not think people in either camp are evil for what they have "done." The average American probably even with the pain involved in belonging to said camp in an America whose moral culture is dominated by guys like Rick Warren. But wait, let's talk about that for a sec: Rick Warren's book is called . It is not called . I am sure he has said a lot of ridiculous things, but has he ever likened Gay Pride parades to a la Ted Haggard? observed empathizesThe Purpose-Driven LifeThe Perverts and Babykillers Bringing the Country to Ruin Murderer's Pride Parades
I'd like to hear the  on this one. One of my favorite things about being raised in such an old and big and totally screwed-up religion is all the deviant and/or dissident clerics the Catholic Church has produced over the years, exposing on a grand and tragic and awesome scale the fallibility of humanity and the consciousness that instills in us the sense that there must be something bigger and more beyond just our own petty civilization, and we can glean what that bigger thing wants from us. My favorite at the moment is the late , the anti-war Jesuit priest Frank replaced in Congress upon the request of a new Pope uneasy at the thought of a representative in the world's most important legislature who said of abortion "I think abortion is a terrible thing & except for women." Rev. Michael Pfleger Father Bob Drinan
At some point I expect science will allow mothers to test prenatally for homosexuality, and some sort of epic crisis of conscience will force Christendom to see humanity in a more nuanced light, in part because we'll all have much more pressing matters to confront by that point, like the economic apocalypse and so on.
Filed under: , , , , , , , Barack Obama gay marriage Jeremiah Wright peggy noonan barney frank Rick Warren michael pfleger bob drinan
., I quite agree that we haven't seen the last of the rev.; he'll be with us through November and beyond. But in trying to prove that Obama couldn't stand up to the Attack Machine, Hillary put him through a pretty good simulation and wound up proving that he can sobecause he just did. I didn't read Bill Clinton's body language quite the way you did; no question his wife's dramatic interpretation of gun-totin', hawg-sloppin', beer-drinkin' Amuricans was sub-parbut to me, 42 just seemed checked out. In fact, the red face, nobody's-home expression and mouth gaping open were kind of worrying.