"for the good of the public"
Agency Overview
503 (as of 2004) [3]
Civilians
213 (as of 2004) [4]
Agency executive
http://www.nsp.state.ne.us/
The is 's only statewide full-service . Serving Nebraska since 1937, State Patrol officers perform a wide variety of duties. Those include working with communities to improve public safety, enforcing traffic laws and drug laws, investigating crimes, and enforcing the laws and regulations pertaining to motor carriers.Nebraska State Patrol Nebraska law enforcement agency
The current NSP commander is Colonel Bryan Tuma.
NSP is divided into six districts including:
Headquarters in : Captain Steve Ayres Lincoln, Nebraska
Troop A in : Captain Thomas Schwarten Omaha, Nebraska
Troop B in : Captain Rice Norfolk, Nebraska
Troop D in : Captain James Parish North Platte, Nebraska
Troop E in : Captain Tom Parker Scottsbluff, Nebraska
Contents
[] edit Divisions
NSP has several divisions which operate within the department, they include: [5]
The which consists of a 206B Jet Ranger helicopter and three 182RG single engine airplanes. The air unit has been used for many different functions including: Drug raids, presidential security, rescue missions, and traffic enforcement.Airwing Unit Bell Cessna
The is responsible for the daily security needs of the "Capitol Complex Area". The State Capitol is equipped with over 60 cameras that are recorded using a "Digital Video Recorder" which allows them to store video images and print out still images.State Capitol Security Division
The division operates permanent truck scales throughout the state, conducts carrier inspections and is in charge of monitoring commercial motor vehicle accidents.Carrier Enforcement
- Statewide, 50 Communications Specialists staff the six communications centers located in Omaha, Lincoln, Norfolk, Grand Island, North Platte and Scottsbluff.Communications
Community Policing
Internal Affairs
Investigative Services
The consists of 15 troopers and their police service dogs. Each dog costs about $3,500-$5,000. The division relies heavily on public support. The dogs are purchased by the Nebraska State Patrol Foundation using donations from the public.K-9 Division
Legal
Supply and Radio Engineering
The division makes up about 200 troopers which are responsible for over 10,000 miles of roads in Nebraska.Traffic Enforcement
The conducts both the Basic Recruit Camp and in service training.Training Academy
[] edit Training academy
NSP runs their own 24 week in-resident training academy in lieu of sending recruits through the standard Nebraska Law Enforcement Training Center's 13 week course.
The new Nebraska State Patrol Training Academy is co-located with the Nebraska Law Enforcement Training Center in . The collocation of agencies upgraded the facilities for virtually every officer completing law enforcement certification in the State of Nebraska. The Training Academy includes: barracks to house up to 208 officers, state-of-the-art classrooms, a defensive tactics room, a fitness room, a training tank, a gymnasium, a recreation area, 2 ranges (1 static shooting, 1 combat), an inspection bay and training room for commercial vehicle inspections, a police service dog training grounds/boarding area, a driving range, and a cafeteria. Grand Island, Nebraska
The State Patrol's style of instruction balances a environment with an academic environment. The curriculum includes instruction in officer survival, investigations, patrolling, legal, administrative, tactical, human understanding, traffic (motor vehicle laws), and carrier enforcement. para-military
The Training Academy staff is well-versed in educational theories such as state-to-state training and adult learning guidelines. The recruits undergo nearly one thousand hours of instruction during camp. The challenge is to ensure they are absorbing and retaining the information. In accordance with the adult learning theory, classes run into the evening rather than starting too early in the morning and much of the instruction involves hands-on and scenario-based training. State-to-state training means the staff tries to present the instruction in the same conditions and environments the recruits will actually experience on the street. [6]
[] edit Fallen Officers
Since the creation of the Nebraska Highway Patrol, 11 officers have died in the line of duty. [7]
Officer