Partners
Career Resources: Preparing workers for life
Career Resources, Inc. is a well-established non-profit workforce development organization that has achieved national recognition for preparing youth and adults in Southwestern Connecticut to gain employment and progress in their careers.  Career Resources provides them with skills, resources, and support necessary for personal development, economic self-sufficiency, and career advancement, and also provides planning and staffing resources to the business community in support of workforce development.
Career Resources has a history of strong management and performance, operating on business principles that require staff to meet both quantitative and qualitative goals.  Career Resources has continually expanded its capacity to serve Southwestern Connecticut by offering new workforce development services that benefit both jobseekers and employers.  Since we are a non-profit, most of our services are offered at no cost to employer or employee.
Career Resource Projects:
CTWorks Career Centers
A partnership between The WorkPlace, Inc. and the Connecticut Department of Labor, and operated by Career Resources,  serves jobseekers and employers.  Career Resources operates three centers that serve over 20,000 jobseekers annually in Southwestern Connecticut, with locations in Bridgeport, Stamford, and Derby.  offers jobseekers career information, a variety of workshops, occupational skills training opportunities, and linkages with employers seeking staff. CTWorksCTWorks
EveryOne Works offers jobseekers with disabilities access to adaptive technology, guidance, and specialized services.EveryOne Works
A program of counseling, education and individualized rehabilitative services for women referred by the criminal justice system.  STARS is funded through a grant from the Connecticut Court Support Services Division.S.T.A.R.S. (Striving Toward Achievement, Renewal and Success)
A nationally certified program including parenting skills, counseling and linkages to employment services for non-custodial fathers, funded through a grant from theThe Fatherhood Initiative
Connecticut Department of Social Services.
A highly individualized self-sufficiency and employment-readiness program for people in supported housing, funded through a grant from the Melville Charitable Trust.Passport to Success
A highly effective job-readiness project that teaches positive attitudes and prepares economically and culturally disadvantaged jobseekers to succeed in the world of work.STRIVE of Fairfield County
A walk-in information and referral center located in the Bridgeport office.  Operated in partnership with InfoLine, the Center provides information regarding all types of resources, including those for childcare, transportation, housing, and food.The Community Network Center
CTWorks