> > civil war , one of the most hotly contested areas in the world was North-Central Virginia. Culpeper's strategic location made it a highly prized position for both sides and thus the county witnessed more troop movement than any location in the nation. Within the County, Grant headquartered, Lee camped, Jackson fought and Stuart wintered. In fact, there were more than 160 skirmishes in and around Culpeper during the Civil War. Important Civil War battles were fought in Culpeper County at Cedar Mountain, Kelly's Ford and Brandy Station and within the town of Culpeper Courthouse, now called the Town of Culpeper. On June 9, 1863, more than 17,000 saber-wielding horsemen and 3,000 infantry clashed at Brandy Station in the Western Hemisphere's largest cavalry battle. The Winter Encampment of the Union army during the winter of 1863-64 was the largest encampment of the Civil War, numbering up to 120,000 soldiers. About an hour's drive east and north of Culpeper, you can visit other significant battlefields including Chancellorsville, Wilderness, Fredericksburg and Manassas. The is an excellent place to begin immersing yourself in Virginia history. The Museum offers a variety of interactive exhibits explaining Culpeper's rich Civil War history, among other topics. Guided bus tours of the Battlefields and walking tours of the historic downtown are also offered through the Museum. Walking tours originate at the Visitors Center at the Depot. For more information on the Museum of Culpeper History, call (540) 829-1749. Be sure and pick up a free brochure, "Civil War Culpeper: A Driving Tour", available at the Visitors Center, or through this website. This full-color driving tour brochure is full of great information, historical facts and human interest stories, and allows you to discover Culpeper County's battlefields at your own pace. Additional Civil War-related brochures are available at the Visitors Center. to order this free brochure. Read more about the , the and the . home what to see & do
IN THE EARLY 1860's