Lost Password?
No account yet? Register
This web site has been designed from the ground up to be a tool for collecting and reporting on the most detailed, structured information on supplements available anywhere on the internet. It is based on information, not on sales. To that extent, you can read reviews and compare prices on a substance, sometimes independent of brand and always independent of whether it comes in a 2 lb tub or a 5 lb tub. If you've been researching the web, trying to find out the best supplement for vascularity, fat loss, muscle gain, etc. with the lowest side effects, or the best-tasting whey protein, then you have come to the right place. It is not surprising that some online retailers have better prices for some supplements than other online stores, but worse prices for others. Our price comparison feature allows you to pick supplements in the sizes you're interested in, then see which online retailer has the whole set of supplements at the lowest overall price with the Favourites option. Favourites also allow you to narrow down and compare supplements you're researching. Have you been using one supplement for a long time? If one retailer makes a drastic reduction in the price of it, would you consider stocking up from them while the going is good? Use to track major changes in pricing across all the retailers. We have compiled on the retailers whose prices are listed on this site. To locate a substance, either select a category from the menu, or use one of the search options. If you would like to purchase a product from a retailer listed here, please show your appreciation and support the continued development of this site by using one of our price comparison links. We will not disclose any personal information to other individuals or companies.
Supplement Reviews and Ratings
a few brief notes
Privacy Policy
Each month, everybody who contributes will get points, and these points are worth cash at the end of the month. The thing is, there is a budget of $175, and when this budget runs out, no more points/cash is to be made for the remainder of the month. Neither you nor SubstanceReviews.com will know when the budget has been reached until the end of the month, so this is incentive for you to contribute early enough to maximize the potential for getting something for your efforts. Points will be given for contributions to the site. 50 points is worth $2 US. * 0-50 points for a forum posting (points awarded are determined by SubstanceReviews.com). * 50 points for a qualifying review, 20 points for a non-qualifying (but approved) one. For a review to qualify, it must be original, and not include any ingredient listings or manufacturer's product descriptions. You can't use your review from another site, but you can re-word it (we don't want to get penalized by the search engines for duplicate content). 120 words or more (the word count is displayed as you type) gets you 50 points, otherwise it's 20 points. Please take care choosing side effects from the list when you're entering a product review. Payments will be made via PayPal, so please make sure you have one set up, ideally linked to the email address that you registered here with. If you've made only $0.15 or $1 or whatever by the end of the month, you may opt to keep this in your SubstanceReviews.com "account" (manually kept for the time being), until it grows enough for you to deem it worth a PayPal payment.
Monthly $175 cash giveaway!