| | | About Hangul Writing Phrases Vocabulary
The is classified as a member of the Ural-Altaic family (other members of this family include the Mongolian, Finnish, and Hungarian languages.) Until the early 1400s, most documents were written in classical Chinese characters (known in Korean as ). As the idiographs are difficult to learn, only the educated people could read and write. King Sejong, the 4th ruler of the (1392-1910), set up a special committee of scholars in 1443 to create a new writing system specifically suited to the Korean language. The result was (meaning 'the one script'). It originally contained 28 symbols, although 4 have dropped out of use. The has 10 vowels and 14 consonants. The consonants represent the simplified outlines of the parts of the mouth and tongue used to pronounce them. The vowels are associated with elements of the philosophy of the . In 1994, Discovery magazine described as the most logical language writing system in the world. The simplicity of led Korea to become one of the most literate countries in the world. U.S. novelist Pearl Buck said that is the simplest writing system in the world and likened to Leonardo da Vinci. Even though is a system of phonetic symbols, it is categorized as new level of feature system, the first and the only in the world. On Oct. 1, 1997, UNESCO designated as world archive property. Koreans commemorate the creation of each year on October 9. Before you begin learning the language, you should take some time to practice . The symbols are combined into blocks, each one representing a single syllable. Each syllable must start with a consonant, although the is silent in the initial position. Text is arranged either in the traditional vertical fashion, with columns reading from right to left (as in some newspapers and old books) or in rows reading left to right (as in most modern novels and magazines). The alphabet may appear complicated, but it is actually easy to learn. Once you are familiar with the characters, looking up words in a dictionary becomes easy. When speaking Korean, you use formal or informal words and phrases, depending on the status of the person to whom you are talking. For example, you generally use informal speech to children and formal speech to older people. It is better to err by being too formal rather than showing disrespect. However, Koreans do not expect foreigners to be fluent and will usually excuse minor mistakes. To aid the traveler and expatriate, has created several pages of useful . To truly learn the Korean language, you should enroll in any of the numerous courses offered by Korean universities and private organizations. We also encourage you to try the excellent resources at .Korean languageHanja Joseon dynasty
Hangul alphabet Book of Changes