  |       ()By Popularity Alphabetical What's This?
Sites of1 - 2039
USGS sites focus on biology, geography, geology, geospatial information, and water resources of the U.S. and the world. The U.S. Geological Survey also offers sites monitoring recent earthquake activity and other natural hazards. United States Geological Survey (USGS)@
dir.yahoo.com/.../Department_of_the_Interior/U_S__Geological_Survey__USGS_
Abstracts on astrophysics, astronomy, instrumentation, geophysics, and physics. Plus the Los Alamos preprint server, articles, and catalogs. NASA Astrophysics Data System
adswww.harvard.edu
World's longest established national geological survey and the UK's premier centre for earth science information and expertise. British Geological Survey (BGS)
www.bgs.ac.uk
Earth Sciences on the Web. Features news, maps, satellite images, and information about careers in geology. Geology.com
geology.com
International partnership of scientists and research institutions organized to explore the evolution and structure of Earth. Ocean Drilling Program
www-odp.tamu.edu
Daily geo-news updates, discussion forums, an expansive directory of links, virtual field trips, geology classes, and a glossary. Geologylink
www.geologylink.com
International initiative of the geological surveys of the world to create dynamic geological map data of the world and make it available via the web. OneGeology
www.onegeology.org
USGS composite map of the U.S. land surface and the ages of its underlying rock formations. Tapestry of Time and Terrain: The Union of Two Maps
tapestry.usgs.gov
Maintains data related to biogeochemical dynamics which are the result of the interactions between the biological, geological, and chemical components of the Earth's environment. Oak Ridge National Laboratory Distributed Active Archive Center (ORNL DAAC)
www-eosdis.ornl.gov
Collecting and sorting the geological software and datasets in Russia. Russian Virtual GeoNetwork
geo.web.ru
Providing a starting point for amateurs interest in geology. LW's Geo Site
www.acc.umu.se/~widmark/lwgeolog.html
Links to PDF document showing the Earth's physiographic features, current movements of major tectonic plates, and locations of volcanoes, earthquakes, and impact craters. This Dynamic Planet
pubs.usgs.gov/pdf/planet.html
PBS series dealing with earthquakes, volcanoes, tsunamis, and other disasters. Savage Earth
www.pbs.org/wnet/savageearth
Earth-science teaching museum for local schools and natural-science interest groups in eastern Ontario. Queen's University - Miller Museum of Geology
geol.queensu.ca/museum/museum.html
National Museum of Natural History multimedia presentation covering gems and minerals rocks, and mining, plate tectonics and vulcanology, and the solar system. Dynamic Earth, The
[] read review
www.mnh.si.edu/earth
Giovanni Guglielmo Research Page contains free computer animations, 3D visualizations, and interpretations of physical and finite element models of salt tectonics. Guglielmo's, Giovanni - Research Page
www.utexas.edu/research/beg/giovanni
Bringing the joy of exploring the geology of our world and nature itself to all by providing information and services to their fellow amateur geologists. Amateur Geologist
www.amateurgeologist.com
Home and business preparedness plans, earthquake and liquefaction maps, and related information from the Association of Bay Area Governments. Northern California Geologic Hazards
www.abag.ca.gov/bayarea/eqmaps
Do you have a question about volcanoes, earthquakes, mountains, rocks, maps, ground water, lakes, or rivers? Email your earth science questions to a U.S. Geological Survey earth scientist. Ask-A-Geologist
walrus.wr.usgs.gov/ask-a-geologist
Introduction to Indiana geology including a collection of geologic information for geologists and non-geologists. Indiana Geology Today
igs.indiana.edu/geology/index.cfm