Fixed-Indexed Annuities
A Fixed-Indexed Annuity is a fixed annuity with the interest earned linked to an external equity or bond index. The most commonly used indexes are the S&P 500 Index, the Dow Jones Industrial Average Index and the Lehman US Aggregate or US Treasury Indexes. The values of an index can vary daily and certainly are not predictable. When purchasing a fixed-indexed annuity, you own an annuity contract backed by American Equity. You are not purchasing shares of stock, bonds or any indexes.   The benefits and features of American Equity's fixed indexed annuities include: * One hundred percent of your premiums earn interest directly related to your fixed-indexed annuities. Once interest is credited, it compounds annually and can never be lost due to interest rate adjustments or negative fluctuations in the S&P 500, Dow Jones Industrial Average, or the Lehman US Aggregate or US Treasury Indexes.   ** Benefit not guaranteed and subject to change. Not Available on all products.        
Tax-Deferred Growth.
Choices of how interest is calculated and which index is used.
Single or Flexible Premiums.
Systematic Withdrawals of interest or amounts to satisfy IRS minimum distributions available immediately.**
10% penalty-free withdrawals starting in year 2.
Lifetime Income Benefit.+
Additional liquidity if you are confined to a nursing home or diagnosed with a terminal illness (available by state approval).
Company Surrender Charges may apply for early withdrawal.
Full Contract Value at first-to-die of Owner or Annuitant.
No up front sales charges or fees.*
+
Features and benefits may vary by contract form and state. Please review the contract or product disclosure for more information.   Annuities are products of the insurance industry and are not guaranteed by any bank or insured by the FDIC.
"Standard & Poor's®", "S&P®", "S&P 500®","Standard & Poor's 500" and "500" are trademarks of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and have been licensed for use by American Equity Investment Life Insurance Company. These products are not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by Standard & Poor's, and Standard & Poor's makes no representation regarding the advisability of purchasing these products.   "Dow Jones," "Dow Jones Industrial Average" and "DJIA" are service marks of Dow Jones & Company, Inc. and have been licensed for use for certain purposes by American Equity Investment Life Insurance Company. American Equity's Equity-Indexed Annuity based on the Dow Jones Industrial Average is not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by Dow Jones, and Dow Jones makes no representation regarding the advisability of investing in such product.   Our products are not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by Lehman Brothers, and Lehman Brothers makes no representation regarding the advisability of purchasing our products.   Tax Interpretations: Neither American Equity Investment Life Insurance Company nor any of its agents or representatives give tax, legal or investment advice. Consult a qualified advisor.
smsmsm