DVDs Gifts Telescropes Toys & Games Video Downloads Jon & Kate Plus 8 DVDs
 
See what's new on TLC. See some of the kids' cutest "rock star" moments in this new music video. Check out the family's photo album featuring the newest Duggar, Jordyn-Grace. Match the Roloffs, solve a slider puzzle and watch classic clips. You be the judge. Share your first impressions of the contestants, then crown around a little. Record your rendition of "There She Is." Before you head the the mall for those post-holiday sales, test your shopping IQ and get tips from Stacy and Clinton.
TLC : Homepage
Are You a Savvy Shopper?
 
Style gurus Stacy London and Clinton Kelly turn the frumpy into fabulous. Get their tips and watch Fridays at 9/8 c. What Not To Wear
 
MORE GAMES
 
Get DIY home improvement projects, design advice, and tips to make your home environmentally friendly. Take a break. Play our Property Games. Property Guide
 
 
The LA Ink crew is back in action. Reconnect with friends or make new ones. Hit the message boards now. From parenting to tattoos, join a conversation now. Share your style sense with the world! LA Ink is back!
They're casting for a new season! Get the info. 10 Years Younger
 
See how this amazing family manages with 18 kids. 17 Kids and Counting
 
When you bring home a new baby, the parenting adventure begins. Bringing Home Baby
 
Watch video of the extraordinary Gosselin family. Jon & Kate Plus 8
 
Flip thru Kat Von D and her crew's tattoo album. LA Ink
 
Watch exclusive video of the Roloffs. Chat about the show. Little People, Big World
 
Check out cool tattoo photos, watch videos and buy stuff! Miami Ink
How much can new investors make by buying, renovating and selling homes? Property Ladder
 
Kleinfeld staff members try to help brides-to-be find the perfect wedding gown. Say Yes to the Dress
 
Enter for a chance to win a room makeover by Paige! Trading Spaces
 
Get advice from Stacy and Clinton. Take quizzes and test your fashion IQ. What Not To Wear
 
Dedicated to the unique relationship between people and animals. Animal Planet
 
Wildlife, world culture, adventure and more exclusive content in HD. HD Theater
 
A global initiative including a television network, interactive tools and "how-to" resources. Planet Green
 
Your source for health & wellness info, tips, tools & support. Discovery Health
 
Your only destination for weapons, warfighters and history - 24/7. Military Channel
 
Delivering remarkable insight into investigation, forensic analysis and true stories that piece together puzzles of human nature. Investigation Discovery
 
The only network devoted entirely to the wonders of science. The Science Channel
 
The premier provider of real-world entertainment. Discovery Channel
 
High performance content about the technology and culture of cars, motorcycles, airplanes and more. Turbo
 