Filed under: — admin @ 4:11 am Part One : Carcinogenesis
In Vivo Models of Mesothelioma, Their Purposes, and Roles
Knowledge of the factors and mechanisms responsible for cancer induc tion rests largely on the development of animal models. In these models, both benign and malignant tumors, as well as preneoplastic lesions, can be induced by proper experimental designs and with appropriate con trols, and their analogy to human pathology can be determined. The animal models can be used to test and identify agents (chemical, physi cal, or biologic) that are capable of carcinogenic activity, and to investi gate their mechanisms. In addition, species and strains of laboratory animals with specific genetic susceptibility to specific types of sponta neous or induced tumors can be identified. Recently, genetic manipula tion has given rise to transgenic or gene-deleted (knockout) animals, which can reveal selective molecular pathways to carcinogenesis.
The study of in vivo animal models of carcinogenesis has sometimes followed the indications of the evidence derived from studies of human epidemiology, especially for occupational and environmental carcino gens. On the other hand, with the systematic development of animal bioassays, many experimentally identified active carcinogens have been subsequently shown to be human carcinogens in epidemiologic studies.
Bioassays of potential carcinogenic agents in animal models, previ ously carried out on a smaller scale, became more systematic in the past 40 years, and they provided a basis for public health measures and primary cancer prevention. The choice of animal biossays depends on our knowledge of the underlying mechanisms of carcinogenesis for dif ferent classes of carcinogens. For example, knowledge of the biochem ical pathways of metabolic activation of many organic carcinogens in human and animal tissues determined the selection of metabolically competent animal models and corresponding modes of administration. In turn, the animal models have provided an indispensable tool for the study of pathogenetic mechanisms of carcinogenesis, and for the inves tigation of inhibitory factors (chemoprevention).
In the case of mesothelioma, its association with human exposure to asbestos was first suggested by some case reports in the 1940s, was sub-stantiated by occupational epidemiology studies in the 1960s (14), and was confirmed by many subsequent reports.
The pathology of human mesothelioma is presented in Chapter 31. The microscopic patterns of mesothelioma are numerous, but they can be grouped into epithelial, sarcomatous (or fibrosarcomatous), and mixed types (5,6).
The first experimental reports of mesothelioma induction, obtained by intrapleural administration of asbestos, were published in the 1960s and 1970s (79), and showed that the epithelial, fibrous, and mixed types of mesotheliomas could be induced experimentally by the same treatments. Numerous experimental results subsequently provided increasingly extensive evidence of the carcinogenicity of various asbestos types and other fibrous minerals, as is discussed below.
Criteria for the evaluation of in vivo models need to be considered. Traditionally, animal models have been evaluated for their analogy to the corresponding human tumors in terms of target organs, tumor morphology, histologic types, and histopathogenesis. Their response to etiologic agents known to be carcinogenic in the human has also been an important criterion for their evaluation and acceptance. Mesothe-lioma animal models, therefore, have been aimed at the induction of tumors by direct exposure of serosal cells, using intrapleural and intra-peritoneal administrations of potential carcinogenic agents; in addi tion, other methods have been used to explore the induction of mesothelial cell proliferation and transformation following indirect exposures, such as inhalation and intratracheal administration, intra-venous (intracardiac) injection, and even dietary intake.
With the development of carcinogenesis studies in animal models, new criteria of analogy with the human counterpart evolved on the basis of mechanism studies, which revealed common pathways of metabolic activation of organic carcinogens and specific mechanisms of activation of mineral particles and fibers, leading to reactive oxygen formation on their surface. Recent advances in the methods of molec ular biology now provide a wide range of new opportunities for the investigation of molecular mechanisms in the induction and develop ment of experimental tumors, and for the identification of pathways of signal transduction and gene activation.
Spontaneous Mesotheliomas
Ilgren and Wagner (10) and Ilgren (11) reviewed the background inci dence of mesotheliomas in humans and animals, and cited references to their sporadic occurrence in a variety of animal species in non-experimental settings, including lower vertebrates, fish, birds, rodents (rats of various strains and wild; hamsters; Mastomys), bovines (adult, neonatal and fetal), domestic and wild dogs, felines, marsupials, ovines, and pigs. They also reviewed reports of mesotheliomas in untreated, historical, concurrent, and sham-operated control cohorts in
rats of seven inbred strains. Untreated rats showed the following inci dences at different sites: pleura 0.3% to 1.5%; peritoneum 0% to 11%; tunica vaginalis of testes 1.3% to 22%; ovarian serosa 0.1% to 0.2%; unspecified sites 0.1% to 1.7%. Vehicle controls showed incidences of 2.0% to 7.8% for intraperitoneally treated rats, and 2% to 2.5% for intrapleurally treated rats.
Mesotheliomas from the tunica vaginalis of the testes or the epidyd-imis in Buffalo and Fischer rats were described by Morris et al (12). Among spontaneous neoplasms in F344 rats observed for life span, five peritoneal mesotheliomas (from omentum, spleen, liver, pancreas, and intestine) were found in 160 males (3.1%), but none in 192 females (13). In lifetime studies in NEDH rats, no mesotheliomas were found in 793 controls; in parabiont rat pairs (rats surgically prepared to share the peritoneal cavities), no pleural mesotheliomas and only one peritoneal mesothelioma were found in 624 rats (14). Tanigawa et al (15) reported 17 mesotheliomas in 395 untreated male Fischer 344 rats (4.3%), only one of which was in the pleura, and all others in the genital serosa or peritoneum. Pott et al (16) reported one mesothelioma in 204 female Wistar rats injected intraperitoneally with saline, and six mesothe-liomas in 394 rats injected with titanium dioxide (anatase) or corun-dum. Minardi and Maltoni (17) examined untreated Sprague-Dawley rats kept until spontaneous death and found, among 1179 males, three peritoneal and one pericardial mesotheliomas, and among 1202 females, only one pleural mesothelioma. Two historical control groups of male Fischer 344 rats, reported by the National Toxicology Program (NTP) (18), showed mesotheliomas of abdominal and tunica vaginalis origin, respectively, in 16/752 (2.1%) and 12/416 (2.9%). No mesothe-liomas were reported in all the NTP studies on female Fischer 344 rats, or in any of the tests in mice. The International Agency for Research in Cancer (IARC) in its reviews on tumors in animals, reported that, in rats, naturally occurring mesotheliomas of the pleura were virtually unknown (19), but those of testicular origin were cited by several authors (2023). In the IARC volume on tumors in hamsters, only induced mesotheliomas were reported (24), and in the volume on mice (25), mesotheliomas were not even mentioned.
About spontaneous cancers, the present writer remembers W.C. Hueper emphatically saying, some 50 years ago, Spontaneous? Lets call them cryptogenetic!
Induction by Fibrous Minerals
Experimental induction of mesothelioma by mineral fibers has been obtained in several species, including rats, hamsters, and mice, and by different routes of administration. The active fibrous materials include the two types of asbestos: amphiboles (amosite, crocidolite, antho-phyllite, tremolite) and serpentine (chrysotile); the zeolite mineral erionite; and man-made mineral fibers and vitreous fibers, including refractory ceramic fibers, glass wool, glass filaments, rock (stone) wool, slag wool, and other recently developed, less biopersistent fibers. Their activity varies considerably, in different test methods, depending on
several characteristics, such as fiber dimensions and durability or biopersistence. Ilgren and Wagner (10) and Ilgren (11) reviewed mesothelioma induction by several nonasbestiform fibrous agents, either naturally occurring or synthetic. Reports of mesotheliomas induced by intrapleural or intraperitoneal injections of various asbestos samples were reviewed and their mechanisms discussed (2629). Com parisons of routes of administration are reported below.
Detailed reports on the characteristics of tested materials and on carcinogenicity data from human and animal studies, with extensive references, are given in the IARC Monographs on the Evaluation of Car-cinogenic Risks to Humans, for asbestos (30), for erionite (31), for man-made mineral fibers (32), and for man-made vitreous fibers (33). The 2002 volume (33) partly revises the classifications given in 1988 (32), on the basis of more recent data.
Intrapleural Administration
In 1962 J.C. Wagner reported the induction of a few mesotheliomas in rats by intrapleural injection of asbestos. In a larger study, Wagner (34) described a successful technique for intrapleural injection in SPF Wistar rats, through a needle attached to a two-way tap connected to a capil lary manometer, which gave a negative reading once the needle reached the pleural cavity, at which point a suspension of the test dust (which had been ultrasonically dispersed) was injected. Each rat received 0.4mL of saline containing 20mg of one of the test dust. The reported preliminary results showed mesotheliomas in rats treated with natural crocidolite (29/50), extracted crocidolite from which organic contaminants had been extracted by cyclohexane (37/62), amosite (8/26), and Canadian chrysotile (55/75). No mesotheliomas were found in 30 rats treated with crystalline silica and in 19 controls that received saline alone. The induced mesotheliomas showed either a large mass or multiple nodules (in similar proportions of animals) and their histologic pattern was tubular epithelial, or spindle-celled, or, most frequently, mixed.
Comparison of SPF and conventional Wistar rats given intrapleural injections of various asbestos samples showed analogous percentages with mesothelioma in both types of rats; the large majority of mesothe-liomas were of the mixed type, with lower numbers of either fibrous or epithelial types (35). Wagner et al (36,37) induced mesotheliomas in CD Wistar rats with a single intrapleural injection of 20mg of five ref erence asbestos samples from the International Union Against Cancer (UICC); mesotheliomas were induced in 66% of rats with a superfine Canadian chrysotile, 61% with crocidolite, 36% with amosite, 34% with anthophyllite, 30% with Canadian chrysotile, 19% with Rhodesian chrysotile, and also with a fine glass fiber (12%), a ceramic fiber (10%), and a glass powder (3%); none with a coarse glass fiber. Pylev and Shabad (38) induced 37.5% mesotheliomas in rats with three intrapleural doses of 20mg of a Russian chrysotile.
Acid leaching of chrysotile rapidly dissolves magnesium (Mg) from the fibers and alters their structure: in intrapleural tests in Sprague-Dawley rats, oxalic acid-leached chrysotile lost most of its carcinogenic
activity as the proportion of leached Mg was increased from 10% to 89%; hydrochloric acid leaching abolished the activity (39).
In Sprague-Dawley rats injected intrapleurally with 25 mg of asbestos of different types, pleural mesotheliomas were found in males in 65% with crocidolite, 70% with Canadian chrysotile, and 40% with asbestos cement, and in females in 25%, 60%, and 30%, respectively, thus indi cating a higher susceptibility in males (17). For control incidences, see Spontaneous Mesotheliomas, above.
Stanton and Wrench (9) developed a technique for intrapleural im-plantation in female Osborn-Mendel rats of gelatin-coated fiberglass pledgets, on which a dose (usually 40 mg) of the test sample was spread and placed in contact with the visceral pleura; mesotheliomas were obtained in about 58% to 75% of the animals in each of the groups given amosite, chrysotile, and four samples of crocidolite. Samples of fibrous glasses of diverse types and dimensions, implanted in the pleura, induced different incidences of malignant neoplasms, called pleural sarcomas, but described as identical to mesotheliomas, including cases with acinar or papillary epithelioid configuration; mesothelioma incidences ranging from 5% to 100% were reported for 15 samples (40), and for 33 other samples (41). Analysis of 72 experiments with fibrous minerals of widely different structure showed a correlation with the number of fibers <0.25|jm in diameter and >8|jm in length (42).
Erionite is a fibrous zeolite structured as a framework of alumino-silicate tetrahedra (Si,Al)O4, in which each oxygen is shared between two tetrahedra; it is mined in several countries (31). It was found to induce mesotheliomas in Sprague-Dawley rats of both sexes after intrapleural injection of 25 mg (43). Wagner et al (44) injected 20mg samples intrapleurally in Fischer 344 rats of both sexes and obtained pleural mesotheliomas in 40/40 rats injected with Oregon erionite, and 38/40 with erionite from Karain, Turkey; for comparison, mesothe liomas developed in 19/40 rats treated with chrysotile and in 1/40 saline controls. In non-inbred rats given three intrapleural injections at 1-month intervals, fibrous erionite from Georgia, in the former USSR, induced mesotheliomas in 39/40 males and 43/48 females with none in controls (45). In a dose-response study of Oregon erionite by single intrapleural injection in Porton rats, Hill et al (46) obtained mesothe liomas in 5/10 rats at a dose of 0.1 mg erionite, 9/10 at doses of 1 and 10mg, and 8/10 at 20mg. Thus, erionite appears to have the highest activity in the induction of mesotheliomas in rats by intrapleural injection.
In hamsters, the first experimental evidence of mesothelioma induc tion was obtained by Smith et al (8) by intrapleural injection of 25 mg of asbestos in groups of 15 male Syrian golden hamsters, to which the same type of asbestos was also fed in the diet; two mesotheliomas were obtained with a sample of harsh crysotile, and three mesotheliomas with a sample of amosite. Of these five mesotheliomas, two were of the epithelial type and three of the fibrous type (controls and a sample of soft crysotile gave no tumors). In a subsequent experiment on groups
of 50 hamsters treated with a single intrapleural injection of asbestos, Smith and Hubert (47) obtained mesotheliomas with 10 or 25mg of chrysotile (4/50 and 9/50 mesotheliomas, respectively), with 10mg of amosite (4/50), with 1 or 10mg of crocidolite (2/50 and 10/50, respec tively), and with 10mg anthophyllite (3/50).
Intraperitoneal Administration
Effective induction of mesotheliomas was obtained by intraperitoneal administration of various fibrous minerals, usually at fairly high doses. By intraperitoneal administration in female Wistar and Sprague-Dawley rats, Pott et al (16) tested a wide variety of samples and obtained extensive evidence of carcinogenicity by many fibrous min erals; the induced tumors were reported as sarcoma, mesothelioma, or carcinoma in the abdominal cavity, without a separate histologic clas sification. In subsequent reports of intraperitoneal tests in female Wistar rats, high incidences were reported for tumors in the abdomi nal cavity described as mesothelioma or sarcoma (48), and later specifically as mesotheliomas in a dose-response study of different samples, with mesothelioma incidences up to 97% (49,50). Histopatho-logic analysis of the mesotheliomas induced by intraperitoneal injec tion of various mineral fibers in Han:WIS female rats by Pott and coworkers was subsequently reported (51) as follows: 45% epithelioid, 34% sarcomatoid, 37% mixed, 18% mixed with bone/cartilage, and 5% sarcomatoid with bone/cartilage.
Several samples of man-made mineral fibers were tested in groups of 18 to 24 male SPF Wistar rats by single intraperitoneal injection of an estimated dose containing 109 fibers >5mm in length; in comparison with an amosite sample, four fiber types were more active and four less active in inducing mesotheliomas (one ceramic fiber type produced by extreme heating induced no mesotheliomas). The results pointed to a link with the number of fibers >20mm in length and with biopersistence in rat lungs of fibers >5mm long (52).
In Sprague-Dawley rats injected intraperitoneally with 25mg of asbestos of different types, peritoneal mesotheliomas were found with crocidolite in 95% of males and 100% of females, with Canadian chrysotile in 90% of males and 70% of females, with Rhodesian chrys-otile in 80% of males and 85% of females, with California chrysotile in 75% of males and 70% of females, with amosite in 90% of both sexes, with antophyllite in 80% of males and 85% of females, with asbestos cement in 45% of males and 60% of females, and none in water con trols of both sexes. In the same study, seven samples of modified chrysotiles induced peritoneal mesotheliomas with various incidences (3085% in males and 2580% in females) and one other sample in only 15% of males and none in females (17). This study does not report a clear sex difference in susceptibility for peritoneal mesotheliomas, whereas the groups treated with intrapleural injection showed a higher susceptibility in males for pleural mesotheliomas (see above; and for control incidences, see Spontaneous Mesotheliomas, above). The finding of a higher susceptibility for peritoneal than for pleural
mesotheliomas with asbestos of various types was not confirmed with tests on a sedimentary erionite, which induced incidences of 50% peri toneal and 87.5% pleural mesotheliomas (data given for both sexes together) (53). The administration of a single large intracavitary dose, such as 25mg, may not be appropriate to detect susceptibility differ ences in the target mesothelial cells.
Dose-response relationships in mesothelioma induction by UICC samples of chrysotile, crocidolite, and amosite and by Oregon erionite, following a single intraperitoneal injection in SPF rats of the AF/Han strain, were analyzed in relation to doses (from 0.005 to 25mg), fiber dimensions (length and diameter), and number of fibers per milligram (54); this study confirmed the importance of fiber length and pointed out that of the two fibers with highest carcinogenic activity, erionite included a fraction of relatively thick fibers, whereas chrysotile fibers separate largely into individual fibrils in tissues (and therefore have low durability), but include a high number of long fibers. A previous intraperitoneal injection study showed the higher activity of long versus short fibers of chrysotile in terms of mesothelioma incidence and mean induction period (55).
Several samples of tremolite, an amphibole type of asbestos, were tested by single intraperitoneal injection of 10mg in 2.0mL saline, in rats of the AF/HAN strain; all induced mesotheliomas, with different incidences, ranging from 100% to 5.5% (56).
Repeated intraperitoneal injections in rats were used for tests of biosoluble synthetic fibers, in groups of 51 female Wistar rats (57); the test materials were administered by intraperitoneal injection to the midabdominal region, with two, eight, or 20 injections, each in 2.5mL saline, at 1-week intervals, depending on the desired total dose [0.5, 2, and 5 109, respectively, of World Health Organization (WHO) fibers]. Glass wool samples B, M, P, and V, of similar density and surface area, but of different solubility, resulted in mesothelioma incidences varying from 0% to 14%, and a sample of stone wool only in 0 and 1%. The incidence of mesotheliomas was correlated with intraabdominal masses, ascites, and chronic peritonitis. Positive controls with crocid-olite, administered in a single dose (0.5 and 5.0 106 WHO fibers, respectively), resulted in mesothelioma incidences of 27% and 45%, respectively.
In male BALB/c mice, mesotheliomas were induced by single intraperitoneal injection of UICC amosite (a dose of 20mg induced 26.7% mesotheliomas; 10mg, 23.5%; 2mg, 35.1%); UICC chrysotile (20 mg, 12.5%; 2 mg, 0); Calidria chrysotile (2mg, 25%); erionite I (10mg, 45.2%); erionite II (10mg, 37.5%; 2mg, 54.5%; 0.5mg, 33.3%); a double injection of 2mg amosite and 2mg UICC chrysotile induced mesothe-liomas in 60% (58). In this study, a large proportion of mice treated with high doses developed severe peritoneal fibrosis and intestinal obstruc tion, and many died before 7 months (mesotheliomas were found only after this latent period); this pathology accounts for the reverse dose-response observed with amosite and erionite. Overall, the mesothe-liomas included 88% of the fibrous type, 11% of the mixed type, and only 1% of the epithelial type. Peritoneal mesotheliomas were found in
all groups of Swiss mice treated by single intraperitoneal injection with graded doses (5 to 40mg) of erionite from Karain, Turkey; no evidence of a dose-response was observed in this study (59).
In C57BL/6 mice, the early mesothelial reactions following intra-peritoneal crocidolite injection were described as involving cell injury and regeneration, associated with the development of mesotheliomas (60). Following intraperitoneal injection of crocidolite, 25% of BALB/c mice and 45% of CBA mice developed mesothelioma, 7 to 25 months after exposure; cell lines were established from these tumors (61).
As an effective method for mesothelioma induction, A.B. Kanes lab oratory adopted weekly intraperitoneal injections of 200mg of UICC crocidolite in C57Bl/6 mice (62); mesotheliomas were induced after 35 to 66 weeks of treatment. The tumors had the typical histology of epithelial, fibroblastic, or mixed types. This model was used for p53+/+, heterozygous p53+/-, and homozygous p53-/- mice. Mesotheliomas developed in 37% of the wild-type mice (mean latent period: 67 weeks), and in 76% of the heterozygous p53-deficient mice (mean latent period: 44 weeks); the homozygous p53-deficient mice developed many other types of tumors early and only one mesothelioma was found in 10 mice, with a latency of only 10 weeks. In the heterozygous mice, 50% of the mesotheliomas showed extensive invasion (63,64).
Inhalation
Following inhalation in SPF Wistar rats of both sexes, for various periods of time, of different samples of asbestos, at doses closely com parable for all samples (as concentrations of mean respirable dust and as cumulative dose), many animals developed lung tumors (adenomas, adenocarcinomas, and squamous cell carcinomas), but only a few developed mesotheliomas. After a 1-day exposure to amosite, 1 of 45 rats at risk developed mesothelioma; 1/28 and 1/18 after 12-month and 24-month exposures to anthophyllite; 1/43, 1/36, and 2/26 after crocidolite exposures, respectively, of 1 day, 3 months, and 12 months; 3/23 and 1/21 after 12-month and 24-month exposures to Canadian chrysotile; and none after exposure to Rhodesian chrysotile and in con trols (65). In another asbestos inhalation study in SPF rats of the Han strain, again, lung tumors were induced by UICC amosite, chrysotile, and crocidolite, but only one peritoneal mesothelioma occurred in 42 rats exposed to 2mg/m3 chrysotile and one pleural mesothelioma in 43 rats exposed to 5 mg/m3 crocidolite (66). In a later study (67), long-and short-fiber samples of amosite and chrysotile were tested by inhalation in rats; the long-fiber samples were much more carcinogenic in both cases (inducing both pulmonary tumors and pleural mesothe-liomas), whereas the short-fiber samples gave some tumors with chrysotile and none with amosite. Results of many experiments on the induction of lung tumors and mesotheliomas by inhalation of chrysotile and of amphiboles in rats were analyzed by Pott (68) and showed that mesotheliomas were much less frequently induced than lung tumors. Davis et al (54) pointed out that mesotheliomas were induced in rats following inhalation of all asbestos types, but never
with an incidence of more than 10% of exposed animals, even at massive doses (55,6567).
In contrast, a high incidence of pleural mesotheliomas was observed in Fischer 344 rats exposed to Oregon erionite inhalation: 27/28 rats developed mesotheliomas, with none in controls; in comparison, only 4/124 rats exposed to crocidolite developed mesotheliomas (44). Johnson et al (69) reported that pleural tumors induced in rats by eri-onite inhalation had similar ultrastructural appearance to mesothe-liomas induced by asbestos injection in the pleural and peritoneal cavities. The high incidence of mesotheliomas induced by Oregon erionite is discussed by Davis (70), who draws attention to the fact that its appearance and fiber size distribution are very similar to those of UICC crocidolite, which causes only rare mesotheliomas when inhaled by rats. Johnson (26) observed that the peritoneum seemed more sensitive to crocidolite than the pleura, whereas the pleura was more sensitive to erionite than the peritoneum.
In Syrian golden hamsters (125 males per group, 140 controls), nose-only inhalation tests of amosite showed the induction of inflammation and pulmonary and pleural fibrosis, followed by mesothelial hyper trophy and hyperplasia, and the following incidences of mesothe-liomas: 4% with 25 fibers/cm3, 26% with 125 fibers/cm3, and 20% with 250 fibers/cm3. In comparison, only one mesothelioma was found with inhalation of fiberglass sample MMVF33 and none with fiberglass sample MMVF10a of much lower durability (71).
In a comparative inhalation study of a kaolin-based refractory ceramic fiber (RCF-1) in Fischer 344 rats and Syrian golden hamsters, significant pulmonary and pleural inflammation was detected for both species; DNA synthesis by pleural mesothelial cells was higher in ham sters than in rats, and was highest in the parietal pleura; greater colla gen deposition was measured in the visceral pleura of hamsters, but was not significantly elevated in rats; and the number of fibers longer than 5mm per cm2 of pleural surface was two to three times higher in hamsters than in rats (72). A previous inhalation study in Fischer 344 rats and Syrian golden hamsters, exposed simultaneously to RCF-1, resulted in a high incidence of mesotheliomas in hamsters (43%), but not in rats (1.6%) (73). Both species developed fibrosis and inflamma tion of the visceral pleura, but hamsters developed greater surface mesothelial cell proliferation and had focal aggregates of mesothelial cells embedded within regions of visceral pleural fibrosis (74).
Comparing the response of different animal models, such as rats and hamsters, is especially interesting, because it may suggest different underlying mechanisms. In studies with crystalline silica, administered either by inhalation or by intratracheal instillation, hamsters developed no fibrogenic or carcinogenic responses, but only macrophagic granu-lomas, whereas rats showed a high level of pulmonary fibrogenic and carcinogenic responses (75). Silica and asbestos are both active through the formation of reactive oxygen species that produce DNA damage, but particulate materials differ from fibrous materials in physicochem-ical characteristics and consequently in their transport and localization in target tissues. Both asbestos and silica are carcinogenic in the lungs
of rats, but no mesotheliomas have been induced by silica, even in rats. Wagner et al (76) found that intraperitoneal injection of silica in rats induced malignant histiocytic lymphomas, but no mesotheliomas. For combined exposures to asbestos and quartz, see below.
Intratracheal Instillation
Intratracheal injection of 2 mg Russian chrysotile, together with 5mg benzo[a]pyrene (BP), resulted in pleural mesotheliomas in 6/11 rats, whereas none were induced in rats given BP alone or chrysotile alone at a higher dose (77).
Mohr et al (78) induced pleural mesotheliomas by 8 weekly intra-tracheal instillations in male Syrian golden hamsters (each of 1mg dust in 0.15mL saline) of two types of glass fibers (mesothelioma incidences: 37/136 and 26/138) and of UICC crocidolite (8/142), with 0/142 in TiO2 controls. These mesotheliomas were all epithelioid, with papillary areas.
I.Y. Adamson and coworkers used intratracheal instillation of crocid-olite in mice and rats in a series of short-term studies, to investigate early-phase proliferation of mesothelial cells in vivo. They showed that mesothelial cell proliferation was induced by long fibers in mice. Since this effect was also induced by other agents, such as hyperoxia, bleomycin, and silica, they suggested that it was a response to injury to the lung and probably mediated by the same cytokines that trigger interstitial fibrosis (79). The early proliferative response of mesothelial cells was also seen after intratracheal instillation of crocidolite in rats, and it was found to be blocked by an antibody to keratinocyte growth factor (KGF) (80). Since mesothelial cells share properties of fibroblas-tic and epithelial cells and they express both vimentin and cytokeratin (81), Adamson et al (80) suggested that KGF, secreted by lung fibro-blasts to promote epithelial repair after asbestos, may diffuse to the pleural surface and induce the short-term proliferation of mesothelial cells; in extended exposure periods, this stimulation may be responsi ble for mesothelial cell proliferation. Further studies by intratracheal instillation of crocidolite in rats showed that during the phase of mesothelial cell proliferation, both KGF and hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) were significantly increased in both bronchoalveolar and pleural lavage fluids (82), and both HGF and KGF stimulated mesothelial cell proliferation (83).
Ingestion
Extensive long-term feeding tests of mineral fibers were reviewed (84). Two hamster studies showed no toxic effects of feeding amosite or taconite tailings, although one mesothelioma was reported in 30 amosite-treated males (none in controls). No mesotheliomas were reported in 10 experimental groups of rats fed amosite or crocidolite. In seven feeding studies with chrysotile, only one showed a peritoneal mesothelioma (in 95 male rats). These tumors were not considered significant. In a large feeding study in rats of chrysotile (alone or mixed with 25% crocidolite, with untreated or palm-oil controls), seven mesotheliomas were reported (two in control groups) and they included three in the thoracic cavity, one peritoneal, one near salivary
glands and two in the testicles (85); again, these mesotheliomas were considered unrelated to treatment, but their origin remains unclear.
Induction by Other Carcinogens
Reports have been published on mesotheliomas in animal models fol lowing exposure to a variety of chemicals. The evidence of induction by the test chemicals is often difficult to establish. Ilgren and Wagner (10) and Ilgren (11) listed a large number of tests from the literature in which mesotheliomas were reported, but they did not assess the sig nificance of the findings, and so included tests in which, for example, only one or a few mesotheliomas were reported in a group of animals, compatible with occurrence in control groups. In other cases, the tumors were not clearly diagnosed as mesotheliomas. This section includes only references to studies showing a likely induction of mesotheliomas.
N-nitrosopyrrolidine (fed at 16mg/kg body weight for 67 weeks) resulted in papillary mesotheliomas of the testis or epididymis in 4/12 (33%) MRC rats, with 0/34 in controls (86). Mesotheliomas and proliferative lesions of the testicular mesothelium (tunica vaginalis and epididymis) were produced by a single intraperitoneal injection of 13mg/kg body weight of methyl(acetoxymethyl)nitrosamine (DMN-OAc) in male Fischer 344 rats (9/25), Sprague-Dawley rats (4/27), and Buffalo rats (12/27) (87).
N-2-fluorenylacetamide, fed at 0.06% in the diet to male Fischer 344 rats, in three cycles of 3 weeks each, with 1-week intervals on normal diet, resulted in testicular mesotheliomas in 9/25 rats (36%), with none in a group with only one cycle and in controls (88). A previous study of N-2-fluorenylacetamide, fed at 0.025% in the diet to Buffalo strain rats, gave mesotheliomas of the testes or epididymis in 3/18 rats, but 2/6 controls also had these tumors (12). Ethylene oxide, tested by inhalation in male Fischer 344 rats, induced significant incidences of peritoneal mesotheliomas at 33 and 100ppm in one study (89) and at 100 and 300ppm in another study (90).
Mice of different strains, treated with intragastric administrations of 3-methylcholanthrene (MCA), 20mg/kg in olive oil, weekly for 10 weeks, developed peritoneal mesotheliomas that frequently invaded the diaphragm and other organs; their incidence varied in different strains: mesotheliomas were induced in 12/31 (39%) mice of the C3H strain, and 9/32 (28%) mice of the BALB/c strain; low incidences of mesothelioma were obtained in C57BL/6 mice (1/31) and DBA/2 mice (1/26), and none in Swiss mice (0/30) and AKR mice (0/32). Most of the induced mesotheliomas were of the mixed type and mainly fibrous. In addition, lesions consisting of severe mesothelial hyper-plasia associated with tissue necrosis and inflammation were consid ered as possible early stages of mesothelioma development (91). This study shows marked susceptibility differences among different mouse strains to mesothelioma induction by a polynuclear aromatic hydro carbon. This model, which has not been used so far for mechanism
studies, could provide clues to the underlying genetic susceptibility factors.
Other organic chemicals were linked to mesothelioma induction, as reviewed by Peterson et al (92), Ilgren and Wagner (10) and Ilgren (11). Among them, sterigmatocystin given by repeated intraperitoneal injec tions, which induced mesotheliomas in 50% of Wistar rats (93); possi bly 1-nitroso-5,6-dihydrouracyl given in three intraperitoneal injections to MRC-Wistar rats (2/40 with mesothelioma) (94); N-methyl-N-nitrosourea given repeatedly intraperitoneally to guinea pigs (only one mesothelioma) (95); and diethylstilbestrol, which, after subcutaneous implantation in squirrel monkeys, resulted in uterine malignant mesotheliomas in 7/10 animals (96).
Ferric saccharate and nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA) were injected intraperitoneally daily for 3 months in male Wistar rats, separately or together: 9/19 rats given ferric saccharate (5mg Fe/kg body weight/day, 6 days/week for 3 months) developed mesotheliomas from the serosa of the tunica vaginalis or spermatic cord; among 19 rats treated with ferric saccharate and also with NTA (83.5mg/kg body weight, 6 days/week for 5 months), seven developed mesotheliomas at the same locations and six had widespread peritoneal mesothe-liomas; the mesotheliomas showed all three histologic types; none were found in rats given NTA alone or just saline (97). Potassium bromate (KBrO3), an oxidizing agent, given in drinking water to F344 rats, induced mesotheliomas on the surfaces of various abdominal organs in males, in 59% at 500ppm and 33% at 250ppm, but in 6% in untreated controls (!), with none in female F344 rats, female B6C3F1 mice, and male Syrian golden hamsters; different durations of treatment in male rats gave mesothelioma incidences near 40% for treatments up to 52 weeks, and 75% for 104 weeks of treatment (98).
The reports of the National Toxicology Program (NTP) (18), National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, were reviewed for tests resulting in mesotheliomas. The following long-term tests in male F344 rats yielded high incidences of mesotheliomas originating in the peritoneum/tunica vaginalis testis: (a) by inhalation: 1,2-dibromoethane (up to 25/50 rats with mesotheliomas); (b) by feeding: o-nitrotoluene (up to 44/60 and to 54/60 in a stop-exposure test); 2,2-bis(bromomethyl)-1,3-propanediol (up to 26/60 in a stop-exposure test); (c) by gavage: glycidol (up to 39/50); (d) by intraperitoneal injec tion: cytembena (a cytostatic agent) (up to 37/50). Lower incidences of mesotheliomas were induced by the following compounds: (e) by inhalation: dichloromethane (up to 5/50); (f) by feeding: pen-tachlorophenol (up to 9/50); ethyl tellurac (up to 8/50); nitrofurazone (up to 7/50); o-toluidine (no incidence given); 3,3 -dimethoxybenzidine dihydrochloride (up to 6/60); 3,3 -dimethylbenzidine dihydrochloride (up to 4/60); pentachlorophenol (up to 9/50 in a stop-exposure study); (g) by gavage: methyleugenol (up to 12/50); trichloroethylene (up to 5/50); (h) by dermal application: 2,3-dibromo-l-propanol (up to 4/50). In addition, a test of acronycine by intraperitoneal injection in Sprague-Dawley rats induced mesotheliomas (in the abdomen or tunica
vaginalis) in both male and female rats, but the incidence was not clear because of high mortality. The historical control incidence of mesothe-liomas in male F344 rats was reported from two laboratories as 2.9% and 2.1%. No mesotheliomas were reported in all the studies on female F344 rats, or in any of the tests in mice.
Radioactivity was shown to induce mesotheliomas; in rats exposed to 239PuO2 by intraperitoneal injection, 27% developed epithelial mesotheliomas and 38% sarcomatous mesotheliomas; the tumor inci dence was dose-dependent and a greater dose was required to induce epithelial than sarcomatous mesotheliomas (99). When chrysotile or 3,4-benzo[a]pyrene was injected with the 239PuO2, the resultant tumor incidence was additive [Sanders, 1973, quoted by Hahn et al (100)]. 239PuO2 also induced pleural mesotheliomas by inhalation or intrapleural injection (101). Four life-span inhalation studies of radionuclides were reviewed by Hahn et al (100) for the induction of mesotheliomas; the rats were exposed briefly (1040min) per nasum once or repeatedly (seven times over 1 year); in a total of 3076 rats (approximately equally divided by sex), exposed by inhalation to aerosols of 239PuO2, mixed uranium-plutonium oxide, or 144CeO2, a total of 28 pleural mesotheliomas were induced (21 epithelial-papillary diffuse, two epithelial-papillary focal, two sarcomatous, and three mixed); four mesotheliomas were found in 1641 controls (0.24%). These studies showed that mesotheliomas can be induced with either alpha-or (less effectively) with beta-emitting radionuclides.
Combined Exposures
Warren et al (14) reported a large study in NEDH rats of both sexes treated with UICC chrysotile by the intratracheal, intrapleural, and intraperitoneal routes, alone or combined with x-radiation or 3-methylcholanthrene administration. The results (limited by incomplete reporting) are indicative of a marked synergism of asbestos with radi ation and with methylcholanthrene for peritoneal, but not pleural, mesotheliomas. Combined effects in mesothelioma induction were also reported for intrapleural chrysotile combined with radon 222 inhala tion in rats (102).
In a study of the combined effects of asbestos inhalation coupled with the inhalation of a particulate material, namely, quartz or rutile (a titanium dioxide polymorph), unexpected results were obtained (103). Rats of the AF/Han strain (sex not specified) were exposed to inhala tion (5 hours/day at 10mg/m3) of UICC chrysotile or to a sample of long-fiber amosite. Separate groups were exposed to the same asbestos inhalation schedule followed by a 2 hours/day inhalation of either rutile (at 10mg/m3) or quartz (at 2.2mg/m3). The inhalation exposures were continued for 1 year, with a 2-year follow-up. Early lung lesions from quartz and asbestos were more diffuse than those from asbestos alone. After 6 months, the asbestos + quartz groups showed more extensive fibrosis and alveolar epithelial hyperplasia, while titanium dioxide did not change the degree of fibrosis seen with asbestos alone. The incidence of pleural mesotheliomas was 6/38 (16%) with chrysotile
+ quartz, 0/37 with chrysotile alone and 2/41 with chrysotile + rutile; and it was 8/39 (21%) with amosite + quartz, 2/40 with amosite alone and 2/40 with amosite + rutile. Peritoneal mesotheliomas were 1/40 with amosite alone, 2/40 with amosite + rutile, 1/39 with amosite + quartz, and none with chrysotile. The induced mesotheliomas were his-tologically biphasic. The remarkable finding that the induction of pleural mesotheliomas by asbestos inhalation is significantly increased by quartz was paralleled by the increase in pulmonary fibrosis. Quartz also increased the incidence of pulmonary adenocarcinomas in com parison with the two groups treated with asbestos alone. The role of quartz, an ubiquitous dust and a known pulmonary carcinogen, in the potentiation of pleural mesothelial carcinogenesis remains to be further investigated. Quartz shares several molecular mechanisms with asbestos (104), and may also have affected the transport of inhaled fibers to the pleura.
Induction by SV40
High incidences of mesotheliomas were induced in 21-day-old male Syrian golden hamsters following intracardiac, intraperitoneal, and intrapleural injections of wild-type (wt) simian virus 40 (SV40) (see also Chapter 3). Specifically, wt SV40 830 resulted in the induction of 13/21 (62%) mesotheliomas by intracardiac injection, and wt SV40 776 resulted in 2/5 (40%) mesotheliomas by intracardiac and 4/6 (67%) mesotheliomas by intraperitoneal injection. When injected intrapleu-rally, both wt strains resulted in a 100% incidence of mesotheliomas (6/6 and 5/5, respectively) with no mesotheliomas in controls (105). The tumors developed between 3 and 6 months after injection. After intraperitoneal or intracardiac injection, the tumors formed a continu ous layer over pleural and pericardial surfaces, obliterating the cavi ties; and those induced by intraperitoneal injection spread widely over the serosal surfaces. No distant metastases were observed. The histo-logic appearance of the tumors was mostly of the mixed type, with spindle cell and epithelioid areas in the same tumor, but some tumors showed only one type of differentiation. The diagnosis of mesothe-lioma was confirmed by histochemical staining, showing production of hyaluronic acid, and by electron microscopic features. Tumor cell lines were established from these mesotheliomas (105).
Mesotheliomas in hamsters induced by asbestos or by SV40 were compared (106). Intrapleural injection of crocidolite asbestos induced mesotheliomas in hamsters in a dose-dependent manner; the tumors appeared late (>18 months) and were small and well differentiated, with adjacent pleural fibrosis, and rarely caused local invasion and death. In contrast, SV40-induced hamster mesotheliomas showed no adjacent pleural fibrosis, and they were large and multicentric, with both epithelioid and sarcomatoid areas; histologically they were anaplastic and showed invasion of adjacent tissues; and they were uniformly fatal within 3 to 6 months. Such different patterns in the histopathology and clinical course of two animal models of mesothe-lioma obtained by different etiologic agents should prove valuable for
investigating the respective molecular pathways involved in their pathogenesis.
Induction by Other Viruses
Proliferative lesions of the pleura, pericardium, and peritoneum were reported in Swiss mice inoculated in utero with polyoma virus, but none of the lesions progressed to invasion or metastasis; the lesions showed hypertrophied mesothelial cells over a thickened hyalinized matrix, or stalks attached to the visceral surface and covered by one to five layers of cuboidal mesothelial cells, sometimes forming polypoid masses (107). In a group of 16 Syrian golden hamsters injected intra-tracheally with polyoma virus (which induced lung carcinomas and liver angiomas), one hamster developed a bilateral pleural mesothe lioma (108); given the absence of spontaneous mesotheliomas in hamsters (see above), this is probably a polyoma-induced tumor.
The MC29 avian leukosis virus (an RNA virus) induced mesothe liomas in 35% of chickens injected in the peritoneal, pericardial, and air sac cavities (109). Diffuse mesotheliomas were induced in chickens of the inbred SC line, by inoculation of preparations of v-src DNA (the oncogene of Rous sarcoma virus); pRLV-src resulted in mesothelioma incidences of 9/10 by intravenous, and 22/37 by intraperitoneal administration; and intraperitoneal pJDD 11 construct gave 10/13 mesotheliomas. The mesotheliomas in all these experiments were of the three morphologic types: epithelial, fibrous, and mixed (110).
Mechanisms and Pathways
Mechanisms Specific to Fibrous Minerals: The roles of fiber type, dimen sions, durability, surface properties, deposition, translocation, and dis solution have been shown to be of critical importance in many studies (42,54,68,70,111-114). The critical factors are fiber dimensions (>8um in length and <0.25 um in diameter), the number of fibers, their chemical composition, and the durability, or biopersistence, of the fiber type. Suzuki (115) remarked on the need for a long latent period for mesothe lioma induction, dependent on the longevity of the species: >7 months in mice, >1 year in rats, >6 years in baboons, and >20 years or longer in humans.
In considering the dose of fibrous minerals that was used in most animal experiments, especially in single injection tests, one may become concerned that the induction of mesotheliomas is obtained by high doses, as compared with the amount of fiber inhaled in human expo sures over a long time. The animal models are often primarily chosen to obtain the desired end point, i.e., the development of tumors compara ble with those of human pathology. Concerning the dose, one has to remember that particulate and fibrous minerals act by mechanisms involving the reactivity of their surfaces, not their bulk, and that there for