Carpal Tunnel is Not the Only Cause of Forearm Pain
Wednesday November 26, 2008
Dealing with forearm pain? This is a pain that occurs in the forearm area and it can be caused by a variety of different problems. Many times it is caused by carpal tunnel syndrome. However, if you are dealing with pain in your forearm, you need to understand that carpal tunnel syndrome is not always the problem. There are many other causes of forearm pain that you should be aware of. Here is a look at some of the problems, other than carpal tunnel syndrome, that can be causing the pain you have in your forearm.
Injury to the Forearm
One cause of pain in the forearm area can be an injury to the forearm. Before you decide you are only dealing with some carpal tunnel pain, you will want to take a few minutes to think. Have you injured the forearm in any way? Did you take a fall or perhaps did you accidentally hit the forearm on something? Perhaps you even pulled a muscle or tendon. These are common problems that can occur that cause this type of pain.
Peripheral Neuropathy
Another common problem that can be the cause of pain in the forearm is peripheral neuropathy. This is a problem that occurs when there is damage to nerves that are peripheral. Often this problem is caused by diabetes and can occur to the feet, hands, and arms. So, it could be a problem that is causing the pain in your forearm.
Tendonitis
Tendonitis is another problem that often causes pain in the forearm. This basically is a problem that occurs when the tendons actually get inflamed. It can be a result of injury or even using it too much. It can cause a lot of pain, including pain in the forearm if the tendons in the area are hurt or overused.
Left Arm - Possible Heart Attack
Last of all, if you are dealing with forearm pain in your left arm, this could be potentially serious. Sometimes when people are going through a heart attack, they end up having pain in their left arm, which can include the forearm area. If you are having chest pain along with this forearm pain or you have pain through the entire arm and only on the one side, you should seek medical attention as soon as possible.
So, as you can see, pain in the forearm is not always a sign of dealing with carpal tunnel syndrome. There are other very serious problems that can cause similar pain. For this reason, going to your doctor and letting him know about the pain can be very important to receive the right treatment.
The Importance of Using the Right Tool
Monday November 24, 2008
– attributed to Abraham Lincoln"Give me six hours to chop down a tree and I will spend the first four sharpening the axe."
Using the right tool can have a huge impact on your health and productivity. The right tool can allow you to accomplish far more using less effort. Abe Lincoln would have learned that lesson well, clearing farmland. Imagine how much less effort it would have taken to cut down a tree with a sharp axe!
While you probably don't spend your days cutting down trees, using the right tool is just as important. The wrong office setup can result in a whole host of Repetitive Stress Injuries (RSI), and sore shoulders, forearms or wrists are just the beginning.
Avoiding Repetitive Stress Injuries
"Ergonomics" comes from two Greek words: "ergo," meaning "work," and "nomos," meaning "law" or "rule." This makes sense: your body was designed to move and work in a certain way - and when you violate those laws, there are physical consequences. For information workers who spend their days at a computer, such injuries are frequently barely detectable in their early stages: tingling fingers, sore backs or shoulders - things easy to overlook or "just deal with" until the cumulative effects of these tiny injuries get so bad they actually prevent you from working. Because the field of ergonomics seeks to avoid or limit these Repetitive Strain Injuries, "ergonomics" is frequently defined as "fitting the task to the worker."
One way to significantly reduce your chances of an RSI is to using the right keyboard for your body type. The problem is, of course, that there are so many different keyboards available! Most are pretty standard and look , while others - in order to better match the work to the worker - have some . In our June email, we'll help you learn the difference between the various keyboard types, and why they are designed the way they are. like this one pretty odd shapes
Right now, though, we'd like debunk a common myth. Typically, split keyboards (keyboards which have the alphanumeric keys split into two halves, with each side slightly angled) are labeled "ergonomic" and declared superior to the more traditional straight keyboards. If your wrists hurt or your fingers tingle, the solution is to buy an "ergonomic" (meaning "split") keyboard. But is it that simple?
Straight or Split Keyboard: Which is Best for You?
The simple answer is, of course, "no, it's not that simple." Split keyboards aren't always better - or even more ergonomic - than straight keyboards. To determine which style of keyboard is best suited to you, perform this simple test: with your arms resting at your sides, extend your hands, and place them on the home row of a straight keyboard. Are your wrists relatively straight, or are they angled?
      
The goal is to keep your wrists straight; working with them bent significantly increases your risk of developing Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and other RSI's. With this in mind, straight keyboards usually work best for users who are somewhat narrow through the shoulders. For those with this body type, typing on the angled keys of a split keyboard causes them to hold their elbows out away from their sides in order to keep their wrists straight. Such a posture significantly increases the strain on their neck and shoulder muscles, leading to soreness and can cause a number of other problems, if continued over time.
If you're looking to upgrade your keyboard to better fit your body type, take a look at a few of the boards below. Remember, there is no "one-size-fits-all" solution - the "best keyboard" is the one that's the best .for you
Straight Keyboards
and - If you long for the days when keyboards weren't an afterthought, you will welcome the quality touch and feel of the Avant line of keyboards. These fully-reprogrammable and remappable keyboards were built to last, with ALPS tactile key switches. The Avant Stellar adds 12 programmable keys to automate tasks such as cut-and-paste, making it perfect for graphic designers, editors or others whose daily jobs require commands using multiple key combinations. Avant Prime Avant Stellar Keyboards
Split Keyboards:
- utilizing tactile ALPS key switches and a split configuration, plus an integrated touchpad, this keyboard combines many of the ergonomic "best practices" in a single, built-to-last package. The Northgate Ergonomic Evolution Keyboard
-  this "variable split" keyboard allows you to truly make your keyboard fit your body type. If you know you need a split keyboard, this is one of the most customizable boards available. Freestyle Solo keyboard
- like the and , the Maxim allows for vertical adjustment as well as horizontal, offering a new level of comfort for information workers. Maxim Adjustable Split Keyboard GoldTouch Freestyle