9 External links
[] edit The Linguistic Circle of Copenhagen
The Linguistic Circle of Copenhagen was founded by Hjelmslev and a group of Danish colleagues on 24 September 1931. Their main inspiration was the , which had been founded in 1926. It was in the first place a forum for discussion of theoretical and problems of linguistics. Initially, their interest lay mainly in developing an alternative concept of the , but it later developed into a complete theory which was coined , and was notably influenced by . Membership of the group grew rapidly and a significant list of publications resulted, including an irregular series of larger works under the name . A was produced, followed by an international journal for structuralistic research in language, (later called ), which was founded with the members of the Prague Linguistic Circle. It was, at that time, the sole journal explicitly dedicated to structuralism. With one short break from 1934 to 1937, while he lectured at the university of Aarhus, Hjelmslev acted as chairman of the Circle until shortly before his death in 1965. Prague Linguistic Circle methodological phoneme glossematics structuralism Travaux du Cercle Linguistique de CopenhagueBulletinActa LinguisticaActa Linguistica Hafniensia
[] edit Theoretical work
Hjelmslev published his first paper at the age of 25. His first major book, , which he finished in 1928, is an invaluable source for anyone interested in Hjelmslev's work. During the 1930s Hjelmslev wrote another book, , which was a major contribution to linguistics. In this book, Hjelmslev analysed the general category of case in detail, providing ample empirical material supporting his hypotheses. It is important to read Hjelmslev's work as a continuous evolving theory on the of linguistics.Principes de grammaire g n raleLa cat gorie des cas epistemology
His most well-known book, , or in English translation, , first published in 1943, critiques the then-prevailing methodologies in linguistics as being descriptive and not systematising. He proposed a linguistic theory intended to form the basis of a more rational linguistics and a contribution to general . Like (1857-1913), he accepted as a system of , from the point of view of language use. However, from the point of view of the linguist, language has to be viewed as a system of or ultimate small units.Omkring sprogteoriens grundl ggelseProlegomena to a Theory of Language epistemology Ferdinand de Saussure language signs figurae
In Hjelmslev's analysis, a sign is a function between two forms, a content form and an expression form, and this is the starting point of linguistic analysis. However, every sign function is also manifested by two substances: the content substance and the expression substance. The content substance is the psychological and conceptual manifestation of the sign. The expression substance is the material substance wherein a sign is manifested. This substance can be sound, as is the case for most known languages, but it can be any material support whatsoever, for instance, hand movements, as is the case for . sign languages
Hjelmslev also referred to as a non-linguistic element in his calculus of language, i.e. a level of independent of linguistic form.purport connotation
In short, Hjelmslev was proposing an open-ended, scientific method of analysis as a new . In proposing this, he was reacting against the conventional view in that sounds should be the focus of enquiry. This begins a more serious philosophical tradition. When an individual's ear detects sound waves, a process begins to translate the into meaningful data. Similarly, when the eye receives light carrying data about the world, it must be interpreted. Hjelmslev reacted against the notion that images had to be translated into a phonetic "substance" or a concretely perceived object in order to be understood. semiotics phonetics cognitive waveforms
Although some have interpreted his work as if Hjelmslev argued that no sign can be interpreted unless it is contextualised -- treating his functives, and as the general connotative mechanisms (for instance by ) -- for Hjelmslev the point of view of the linguist on meaning is that of the form of content. Even if the content substance is important, one has to analyse it from the point of view of the form. Not only do pictures and literature manifest the same organising principles, but, more broadly, and must be taken to be identical on a deeper level.expressioncontent Algirdas Julius Greimas seeing hearing
[] edit Assessment
Hjelmslev made a bold proposal to transform technical analysis into a broad enquiry, emphasising that the true focus of linguistics should be the language and the human that continually reinvents it, and all 's of its accumulated preserved through language. This was a challenging but constructive argument at the time, and remains one that still has relevance today. Most conspicuously, Hjelmslev's lines of inquiry have been taken up by and (see the "Postulates of Linguistics" and "Geology of Morals" chapters of ), and subsequently their followers. culture society memory knowledge Gilles Deleuze Felix Guattari A Thousand Plateaus
[] edit Terminology
Hjelmslev introduced the terms , , and as linguistic units, analogous to , etc.glossemecenemeprosodemepleremephonememorpheme [1]
Also, his most famous work, Prolegomena to a Theory of Language, is mostly concerned with the formal definition of a terminology for the analysis of any level of a system of signs, and as such there exists an exclusively Hjelmslevian terminology for that.