Sites
USA Holiday - falls on January 19, 2009
Martin Luther King Jr. inspired people with his speech "I Have a Dream" now you can post your own "I have a dream" statement. Site also contains excerpts from his speeches and writings, along with articles about him. Site visitors can even listen to an audio file of his famous "I have a dream" speech. Spirituality.com
Building upon the achievements of Stanford University Martin Luther King, Jr., Papers Project, the King Research and Education Institute provides an institutional home for a broad range of activities illuminating the Nobel Peace laureate life and the movements he inspired. Martin Luther King, Jr., Research and Education Institute
Education World provides articles, lesson ideas, books, activities, and much more -- all to help you understand the holiday. Martin Luther King Day
From Kaboose, kids site featuring clipart, coloring and crafts. Martin Luther King Day
Established in 1968 by Coretta Scott King, The King Center is the official, living memorial dedicated to the advancement of the legacy of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., leader of America greatest nonviolent movement for justice, equality and peace. The King Center
History, information, timeline and resources from Wikipedia. Martin Luther King Day
In 1994 Congress passed the King Holiday and Service Act, designating the King Holiday as a national day of volunteer service. Instead of a day off from work or school, Congress asked Americans of all backgrounds and ages to celebrate Dr. King's legacy by turning community concerns into citizen action. Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service
The history of the man and the holiday. Martin Luther King Jr. Day, On the Net
Text and video of the famous speech by Martin Luther King Jr.. I Have a Dream
Very well done site with historical information, information on the holiday, speeches and much more, from Seattle Times. Martin Luther King Jr.
The King Memorial is intended to be personally transformative for visitors, building a sense of commitment to the promise of positive change and active citizenship. Located in Washington D.C.. Martin Luther King, Jr. National Memorial
Online Martin Luther King Jr. cards for family and friends in many themes. Martin Luther King Day eCards- American Greetings
Family Education offers activities, quizzes and resources to help celebrate the day. Martin Luther King Jr.