So, according to , patriotism is only patriotic when it’s patriotic.  this sign
James Madison, the author of this is not. 
One must appreciate the surely painful artistry it took to figure out enough forms of treason to finish out the board, as well as the Photoshop acumen necessary to show a giant’s hand shoving what must surely be the world’s largest manufactured dagger into the Statue of Liberty’s back.  Far be it from me to intrude on an artist’s work, but I daresay that a perfect title for the piece is “Stay Puft’s Revenge”.
A question for the artist, however: are those trees behind the Statue of Liberty, or is that smoke?  And if it’s smoke, why would the stories-tall traitor be stabbing the thing he set on fire? 
------
We're still in the process of getting it all squared away, so for the moment before starting to write your comment.Registration is now required!don't forget to Login or Register using the links in the upper left menu
Posted by on 08:50 AM • Jesse Taylor Permalink
Dolchstoss!
 on  08/26  at  Cris 10:06 AM
By the terms of that list, Bush and Cheney and Rove are the biggest traitors in the country.
Gracchus  on  08/26  at  10:09 AM
Is the Statue of Liberty even flammable?
Ryan  on  08/26  at  10:09 AM
An 80-foot tall man is shoving a giant knife into a statue, and you’re concerned about whether or not the Statue is flammable?  The real question is, “Where are the unicorns?”
Jesse Taylor  on  08/26  at  10:17 AM
I see it as Mr. Hands treating Liberty like his personal clay doll.
Which makes sense in the context of the poster.
“Let me help you with that knife, Ms. Liberty. I’m a patriot.”
“You’re stabbing me in the back!”
“Look at that weapon you have! You must be a terrorist traitor, Ms. Liberty. And you know what means...”that
“Oh noooooo!”
 on  08/26  at  Yamara 10:19 AM
are those trees behind the Statue of Liberty, or is that smoke?
Collapsing towers! 9/11 Changed Everything!
(I had to write something down on my wall calendar for 9/11 today. I had to go get a black sharpie because the ENTIRE box is one big American Flag. Stupid free municipal calendar)
hanna j rgel  on  08/26  at  10:28 AM
A question for the artist, however: are those trees behind the Statue of Liberty, or is that smoke?  And if its smoke, why would the stories-tall traitor be stabbing the thing he set on fire?
Perhaps it’s an homage to Monty Python?
Juan Stoppable  on  08/26  at  10:42 AM
I’m pretty sure that the smoke in the background is from the bombing of Pearl Harbor (from the USS Arizona?).  Which of course makes perfect sense…
randomliberal  on  08/26  at  10:43 AM
I believe Ms. Liberty to be the treasonous one, with all of her lefty rhetoric about welcoming foreigners.  No wonder St. McCain had to stab her in the back.
Mark B  on  08/26  at  10:44 AM
He lit fire to her dress first, just for fun.
Mark B  on  08/26  at  10:46 AM
No, hanna has it right—the smoke is from them evil terrorists (that would be us, you know, the Left who are actually evil terrorists) running the airplanes of free speech into the Statue of Liberty/America and thus stabbing her in the back with the mighty dirk of dissent...or whatever this tool’s point is.
 on  08/26  at  delagar 10:48 AM
The smoke is supposed to be coming from the smouldering remains of the WTC.
 on  08/26  at  DJA 10:54 AM
wow, I just realized that you can replace “is not patriotic” with “is not dissent” and get a sign that makes some kind of coherent sense (but even that would not give it a coherent point). An example “Supporting America’s enemies is not dissent” (it’s support of something else… as spelled out in the sentence)
Can we send trolls back to school until they figure out what a dictionary is and that they can’t just humpty-dumpty meanings onto words?
kodiak  on  08/26  at  11:04 AM
I’d like to speak freely.
Okay, fill out this form, and make sure you provide accurate detail of what you would like to speak freely about.  When the Free Speech Committee meets next month, they will look over what you intend to say and decide whether you can say it or not.
But that’s not free speech!
Free speech is only for American patriots, not traitors, sir.  So we need to read what you intend to say to determine if you’re a patriot or you’re committing treason.  It’s really simple.
But, but...nevermind…
That’s the spirit, sir.  Would you like a flag pin for your lapel?
Sure…
MikeEss  on  08/26  at  11:04 AM
The smoke is supposed to be coming from the smouldering remains of the WTC.
If that’s the intent, it’s billowing in the wrong direction. Typical.
Gracchus  on  08/26  at  11:06 AM
I suspect that smoke was supposed to represent this, although the picture above has the wind blowing in the wrong direction:
rea  on  08/26  at  11:08 AM
Great minds think alike, Gracchus . . .
rea  on  08/26  at  11:08 AM
Hey, even giant metal anthropomorphic personifications of liberty and freedom can have serious flatulence issues.
It’s not patriotic to point that out though.
 on  08/26  at  Left_Wing_Fox 11:10 AM
Is the Statue of Liberty even flammable?
She’s made out of copper.
Maybe that’s why she’s slumping forward - she’s melting.
Seraph  on  08/26  at  11:15 AM
Well I know the trolls will make fun of my handle again, name calling is a real sign of reason and education I guess...But since they can’t win intellectually I suppose calling me a pee pee face is about all they can do to fend off their own feelings of doubt and self loathing…
Anyway I was prepared to sort of wince when I read the sign and think wow this is over the top. However I do think the artist had some good points. Were it not for the extra gratuity of the graphics and the word treason which of those statements on their own would anyone disagree with?
SPQR_US  on  08/26  at  11:31 AM
The question is, which political party is this sign attacking?
scythia  on  08/26  at  11:34 AM
SPQR_US, it’s called a “straw man.”
Tyro  on  08/26  at  11:42 AM
The smoke means that the Statue of Liberty is moving super-fast, like a funny car.  It’s back-stab ACTION! action! action! action…
FlipYrWhig  on  08/26  at  11:48 AM
I’m with scythia: I can’t tell if the sign is intended to attack Republicans or Democrats. Seems to me that every one of those “offenses” has been committed by GWB, et al.
Stephen  on  08/26  at  11:49 AM
Maybe the smoke + statue of liberty is yet another post-apocalyptic movie cliche, a la Planet Of The Apes*.  You know, like when it’s all somehow more disastrous because OMG THE STATUE OF LIBERTY STILL EXISTS IN SOME SORT OF MANGLED FORM!  OMG!
The entire country has gone up in flames (due to attack by giants?), but that one teeensy island that the statue of liberty stands on is the last scrap of damage free America.  Until, of course, those stupid libruls forged a knife the size of the Empire State Building and treasonously handed it off to their giant overlords to finish off the very last symbol of American hope and freedom.  So they can build condos on the island, probably, if you know those latte sipping elitist moonbats very well…
*Though this worked in POTA, when the idea was to establish that Heston was on Earth the whole time.
 on  08/26  at  The Opoponax 11:50 AM
Were it not for the extra gratuity of the graphics and the word treason which of those statements on their own would anyone disagree with?
True, if you remove those statements from the context of being accusations hurled at American citizens exercising their First Amendment rights - in good faith and with patriotic intention - by some knuckledragger who believes that anyone who doesn’t fit definition of patriotism (and thus probably wouldn’t be protesting in the first place) is a traitor, they’re simple statements of fact.his
Unfortunately, removing them from that context is impossible.
Seraph  on  08/26  at  11:53 AM
Im with scythia: I cant tell if the sign is intended to attack Republicans or Democrats. Seems to me that every one of those offenses has been committed by GWB, et al.
True, but Republicans are the ones who are in the business of demonizing dissent, so I’m pretty confident in assuming that this is attacking Democrats.
Seraph  on  08/26  at  11:55 AM
Everybody knows Republicans are patriots.  So GWB could never have abused the First Amendment, no matter what…
OTOH, a Democrat’s first act of treason (of the day) begins by leaving the house…
MikeEss  on  08/26  at  12:04 PM
Well I know the trolls will make fun of my handle again, name calling is a real sign of reason and education I guess...But since they cant win intellectually I suppose calling me a pee pee face is about all they can do to fend off their own feelings of doubt and self loathing.
Since you can’t win intellectually, I suppose all you can do is preemptively write off everyone else’s views as doubt and self-loathing.
Anyway I was prepared to sort of wince when I read the sign and think wow this is over the top. However I do think the artist had some good points. Were it not for the extra gratuity of the graphics and the word treason which of those statements on their own would anyone disagree with?
Actually they’re idiotic points, because none of the people they’re meant to attack actually does any of those things. Right wingers only pretend that other people do those things, so they have an excuse to attack us for being unpatriotic.
dan  on  08/26  at  12:04 PM
Were it not for the extra gratuity of the graphics and the word treason which of those statements on their own would anyone disagree with?
I agree - the Republican Party is committing treason by dumbing down education via its support for incorporating so-called “intelligent design” into the public school science curriculum.
Hang ‘em from the highest yardarm we’ve got, says I!
spencer  on  08/26  at  12:05 PM
Shouldn’t that giant arm be made of straw?
Just sayin’
Corvus  on  08/26  at  12:15 PM
Hi Spencer,
I guess you may have assumed I’m a Republican and then associated me with the crazy people who believe in the intelligent design fraud non-education platform. Just because I don’t go along with bashing my own country doesn’t mean I belong ot either major party. Blue dog Democrats for example and the type of Democrats I grew up with feel e-x-a-c-t-l-y the same way I do about the statements on this poster.
I have lived abroad for years at a time and travel frequently. In Asia the Asians mostly LOVE America and Americans. At 1st they assume I’m English or some other European and then when they learn I’m an American they treat me extremely well. Once a few years ago when I was in a remote Burmese village temple a monk approached me and excitedly and bravely told me of his love for America and it’s people and his respect and admiration of George Bush. I know people here may mock that but if you take a moment consider what risk these monks must have taken to openly tell me that.
On the other side I have had a number of left leaning Europeans and Canadians verbally assault me while I am just ordering dinner (having heard me speak with an American accent to a waiter) for whatever thing they think George Bush may or may not have done and then expect me to go along with their comments. I may be a dinosaur but if a person expects me to bash my country publically on foreign soil I am not going to do that.
On the Obama front listening to that hack lecture Americans about learning Spanish or French from foreign soil was appalling. Obama only speaks English that’s it. Between my wife and I we speak 5 languages and I grew up in the heartland I suppose “clutching my guns and religion bitterly”.  ;^) Under his ignorant principle that he spoke to; Europeans should all learn English before they come here not the other way around (again just folowing what the annointed one said). What an ignorant and arrogant man. That Obama was such an unaccomplished and pandering fool was clear in the German reaction to his over posturing; they would not tolerate the insult of such a grasping negative little fraud in front of the Gate in Berlin...they kicked his pandering America bashing backside down the road, to a place better suited to Paris Hilton, Brittney Spears and Mr. Obama…
I learned Latin in high school and German from my father (who learned it in the War) and while stationed overseas in the service, I picked up enough of several other languages to get by while traveling and living abroad. I have found the American people and the American spirit to be quite capable and able to learn and succeed better than any other nation. That isn’t just a feeling it’s what I’ve seen with my own eyes. The stability and freedom of our time is an Ameircan gift and the world is a greater and safer place for our presence on the world stage.
SPQR_US  on  08/26  at  12:41 PM
SPQR is one of those guys who fancies himself an “independent thinker” who to support Republicans all the time and mindlessly mouth their talking points, verbatim. Sorry. not impressed.just happens
Tyro  on  08/26  at  12:48 PM
An epigram I learned in school keeps coming to mind:
Treason doth never prosper, what’s the reason? For if it prosper none dare call it treason.
-Sir John Harington
kodiak  on  08/26  at  12:52 PM
Since our Buchananite commenter SPQR is such a fan of the Statue of Liberty, I wonder what he thinks of the poem inscribed at its base:
“Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed, to me: I lift my lamp beside the golden door.”
Funny, but she doesn’t demand that they learn English or sever all ties to and interest in the old country.
Gracchus  on  08/26  at  12:57 PM
SPQR wants to keep the Statue of Liberty but lose the poem...goddam libruls get to everything…
And Gracchus, don’t forget the Statue of Liberty is French. SPQR knows just what to do about that…
MikeEss  on  08/26  at  01:00 PM
the smoke= bad burrito?
Danica Lefse Queen  on  08/26  at  01:08 PM
Obama only speaks English thats it.
False.
Under his ignorant principle that he spoke to; Europeans should all learn English before they come here
They do, retard.  Most speak it quite well.  Most are already fluent in English by the equivalent of our 8th grade.
clutching my guns and religion bitterly ....the annointed one...unaccomplished and pandering fool ...Paris Hilton, Brittney Spears and Mr. Obama&
Why would anybody ever confuse you for a Republican, independent thinker?  +5 McCain points for you, sir!  Heartland!
scythia  on  08/26  at  01:09 PM
I have found the American people and the American spirit to be quite capable and able to learn and succeed better than any other nation. That isnt just a feeling its what Ive seen with my own eyes.
How is what you’ve seen with your own eyes any more representational of fact than any old gut feeling? If this is truly a quantitative evaluation, how do other countries stack up? There’s as many or more Canucks, Auzzies, Kiwis, and Brits traveling the globe, how do they stack up? What’s the metric you used to evaluate this?
kodiak  on  08/26  at  01:12 PM
Wow. That’s quite some fantasy life you’ve constructed for yourself there, SP.
Dweeze  on  08/26  at  01:19 PM
Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled masses yearning to breathe free, The wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed, to me: I lift my lamp beside the golden door.
I’m such a sap.  This has me near tears almost every time I read or hear it.  Even when I was a kid, I was like, “whoa.  heavy.”
There’s a great moment in that big Ken Burns documentary about New York that digresses into the story of this poem (as part of the story of the statue itself), as a segue into a part about the impact of immigration on turn-of-the-century New York.  I cried.  Yes, I fracking cried during a Ken Burns documentary.  Thanks, Emma Lazarus.  Thank you very much.
(Also, as an aside, has anyone else seen , this Italian film that came out last year about European immigration through Ellis Island?  Jaw dropping.  You must put it on your netflix queue immediately.)The Golden Door
 on  08/26  at  The Opoponax 01:19 PM
The President is merely the most important among a large number of public servants. He should be supported or opposed exactly to the degree which is warranted by his good conduct or bad conduct, his efficiency or inefficiency in rendering loyal, able, and disinterested service to the Nation as a whole. Therefore it is absolutely necessary that there should be full liberty to tell the truth about his acts, and this means that it is exactly necessary to blame him when he does wrong as to praise him when he does right. Any other attitude in an American citizen is both base and servile. To announce that there must be no criticism of the President, or that we are to stand by the President, right or wrong, is not only unpatriotic and servile, but is morally treasonable to the American public. Nothing but the truth should be spoken about him or any one else. But it is even more important to tell the truth, pleasant or unpleasant, about him than about any one else.
Teddy Roosevelt, and spoken during World War I to boot. Who’da thunk he was a traitor too?
sunsin  on  08/26  at  01:20 PM
That originally having some strong motive--what, I will not stop now to give my opinion concerning--to involve the two countries in a war, and trusting to escape scrutiny, by fixing the public gaze upon the exceeding brightness of military glory--that attractive rainbow, that rises in showers of blood--that serpent’s eye, that charms to destroy he plunged into it, and has swept, on and on, till, disappointed in his calculation of the ease with which Mexico might be subdued, he now finds himself, he knows not where.
Abraham Lincoln, , 1848. Who’da thunk it, Honest Abe as a traitor too! Even before he saved the Union! Well, those traitors, they think ahead, you know. speaking on the Mexican War
sunsin  on  08/26  at  01:26 PM
On the Obama front listening to that hack lecture Americans about learning Spanish or French from foreign soil was appalling. Obama only speaks English thats it. Between my wife and I we speak 5 languages and I grew up in the heartland I suppose clutching my guns and religion bitterly
Given the number of run-on sentences in that mess, I hope you’re a bit more familiar with the other four.
 on  08/26  at  Llelldorin 01:29 PM
Abraham Lincoln and Teddy Roosevelt:  Goddam RINOs…
MikeEss  on  08/26  at  01:29 PM
You know, the whole story of the American dream and making a better life for yourself in America is the Barack and Michelle Obama story, not really the John and Cindy McCain story.
So when SPQR talks about the people being “capable and able to learn and succeed better than any other nation,” he’s talking about people like Barack Obama, not people like John McCain or George W Bush. And when Barack Obama talks about setting high expectations for America in a global economy, he’s the one who really believes that Americans are special.
SPQR might talk a big game, but when it comes to living his beliefs and acting on those beliefs, it’s clear that it’s all just a bunch of platitudes. And isn’t that what all of these right-wing games of “Who is more patriotic?” stuff is and why Dems don’t engage in it? Because right-wingers are all about platitudes about such things but the Dems are the ones doing it.
Tyro  on  08/26  at  01:32 PM
Once a few years ago when I was in a remote Burmese village temple a monk approached me and excitedly and bravely told me of his love for America and its people and his respect and admiration of George Bush. I know people here may mock that but if you take a moment consider what risk these monks must have taken to openly tell me that.
Yeah.  You know who else is popular in the third world?  Osama bin Laden.  So, you’re right.  Those Canadians and Europeans are sooo eviilll for not liking Bush or Americans.
I bet the creator of that sign is one of those assholes who will cheer if New York ever gets hit by another terrorist attack, since New Yorkers are all liberal elitists.  It makes me wonder why those assholes were so freaked out by 9/11 in the first place.  Didn’t the terrorists do them a favor by killing ~3,000 liberals?
keshmeshi  on  08/26  at  01:36 PM
Were it not for the extra gratuity of the graphics and the word treason which of those statements on their own would anyone disagree with?
You don’t know what a tautology is do you?
I guess your Greek isn’t up to the high standards of your Latin and German.
Sarcastro  on  08/26  at  01:39 PM
Isn’t it, like, REALLY FUCKING HARD to get a visa for Burma as a US passport holder? 
Isn’t Burma one of those countries that are pretty much no go if you are from the US, no matter how much you might really want to go on vacation to a totalitarian dictatorship? 
I don’t think Burma actually lets US citizens go tooling around to Buddhist monasteries, considering said monasteries’ typical political leanings wrt the Burmese junta.  Even if they had to let you in for some other reason.