Largest Meeting Room11,813 ft⊃2;
Indoor Meeting Space36,000 ft⊃2;
Indoor/Outdoor Meeting SpaceN/A
Business center, concierge. Fitness center, golf, pool.Business:
Recreation:
Nearby:
Inspired by the Italian villas of Lake Como, The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas materializes like an Italian daydream on the banks of this scenic 320-acre privately owned manmade lake. This distinctive AAA four-diamond resort features 349 guest rooms and suites, including 65 Club Level accommodations in a replica of Florences famous Pontevecchio Bridge that extends on pilings into the lake. Leather chairs and rich appointments make The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas boardrooms an executives dream. Larger corporate events fit easily into the 32,000 square feet of event space, including the 1,000-capacity Ritz-Carlton Ballroom and copious outdoor venues. Incentives abound, including the 30,000-square-foot Ritz-Carlton Spa, The Falls and Reflection Bay golf clubs (designed by Tom Weiskopf and Jack Nicklaus, respectively), plus water sports, gondola rides, and water taxis to lakefront casino gambling. There are no packages available at this time. There are no hot dates at this time. Late night -- minus the bright lights -- will offer all-age nocturnal activities 17 miles from the Las Vegas Strip HENDERSON, NEVADA. April 8, 2008 -- Las Vegas summer nights no longer need bright lights and flashing neon to come alive. The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas has unveiled a new all-night-adventure program appropriate for children and adults, couples and families and nocturnal merry-makers of all ages. Among other pleasures, the menu of never-before-offered night activities will include a heavens-driven Moonlight Spa available nowhere else in the world. Nights Without Neon puts early to bed to rest. Summer guests of The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas will now be able to experience close-up the nocturnal beauty of Nevadas high-desert, as well as new recreation and dining options designed specifically for the areas balmy summer nights. The resorts Nights Without Neon menu includes the following la carte adventures, offered from May 1 through Labor Day 2008: Moonlight Spa. An exclusive al fresco experience offered only seven nights of the month: three nights during the waxing phase of the moon, once during the full moon, and three times during the moons wane. Since mans earliest days, lunar phases have played a role in physical well-being, and The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas Spa offers three exclusive bodywork experiences inspired by lunar effect. These special treatments are experienced on the shores of the resorts private lagoon, bathed in moonlight unobstructed by Las Vegas city lights. They are based on the applicable moon phase, inviting guests (individuals and couples alike) to connect to the natural rhythms of the moon above. During the waxing phase, gravity feels at its most intense, and deep therapeutic massage is combined with gentle stretching to relax the body and clear the mind. Contemplating personal goals is recommended during the waxing phase. A full moon signifies energy, and Moonlight Spa during this lunar energy period includes an invigorating massage with special attention to the scalp. Guests can take advantage of the intense energy of this phase to manifest their goals. When the moon finally wanes, surrender and calm prevail; the moon is in retreat, and the guest can retreat as well. Light, relaxed, soothing massage is performed at this time, employing delicate aromatherapy blends. Paying special attention to pressure points on the hands and feet will help guests surrender during this time of calm. Moonlight Spa guests will receive a crystal representing the phase of the moon under which they experience their outdoor treatment. The experience is available on specific nights selected from the lunar calendar. Midnight at the Oasis. An opulent midnight dining experience that offers white glove service, a gourmet culinary presentation and Cristal champagne served in one of the resorts romantic private poolside cabanas. Stars and SMores. Ideal for date nights and family evenings, this one-hour viewing of the southern Nevada night sky provides stellar views free of the light pollution of the Strip. Guests are guided on a tour of the heavens using professional-caliber telescopes, and then treated to smores and beverages of the season. Dive-In Movies / Mojitos and Manicures. Popular family movies and kid-friendly new releases are shown poolside while guests watch from pool chairs or floats. Poolside movie snacks including hot dogs, candy and snow-cones, are available at the concession stand. At the same time, parents may choose to enjoy Mojitos & Manicures from 6:30 p.m. until 8:30 p.m. directly on The Ritz-Carlton pool deck. This grown-ups only add-on features a 25-minute nail service and nicely-chilled Mojito. Fly by Night. They say that fish may be hungriest just before dusk, and the healthy bass, trout, carp and catfish of 320-acre Lake Las Vegas are no exception in this end-of-day catch-and-release activity. Equipment is provided, and a fishing license is not required on the resorts beautiful, private man-made lake. Guests may fish either from shore or a provided watercraft, or they may upgrade to a full fly-fishing lesson. Night at the Beach. A picnic basket for two or more is provided as guests lounge on a private lagoon beach, enjoying the starlit desert sky and the lush sounds of an adjoining waterfall just steps from the Mobil Four-Star resorts 349 luxury rooms and suites. Sundown Bike Ride. The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas offers a three-mile loop around the resort, allowing cyclists to view the flora, fauna and twinkling lights of magnificent mogul mansions surrounding Lake Las Vegas ten miles of shoreline. Bikes and maps are provided by the resort, and the property resort fee allows guests one hour of complimentary bicycle use. Kids Night Out. Children can get away for a night of fun and excitement, while parents enjoy a quiet dinner at the resorts romantic Medici Caf & Terrace on Friday and Saturday evenings. The supervised night of fun includes a special dinner, movies, and arts and crafts from 6 to 9 p.m. -- or until 11 p.m. for parents needing a slightly longer time out. Sunrise Yoga. A magical desert dawn experience, complimentary yoga classes are offered near the resorts tranquil waterfall lagoon. With its Nights Without Neon beginning May 1, 2008, The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas is conveniently located 17 miles from the Las Vegas Strip. The resorts private and idyllic setting offers year-round golf, water sports and outdoor recreation opportunities, along with a 30,000-square foot destination spa and popular Medici Caf & Terrace, serving American cuisine and one of Nevadas top rated restaurants. For reservations, visit ritzcarlton.com, call 800-241-3333 or contact a travel professional. For Nights Without Neon activity reservations, call the resort directly at 702-567-4600.