MAP Program
[] edit Juilliard Manuscript Collection
In 2006 Juilliard received a of precious music manuscripts from the billionaire collector and financier . The collection includes autograph scores, sketches, composer-emended proofs and first editions of major works by , , , , , , , , , , and other masters of the classical music canon. Many of the manuscripts had been unavailable for generations. Among the items are the printer's manuscript of Beethoven's , complete with Beethoven's hand-written amendments, that was used for the first performance in Vienna in 1824; Mozart's autograph of the wind parts of the final scene of ; Beethoven's arrangement of his monumental for piano four hands; Schumann's working draft of his ; and manuscripts of Brahms's and . The entire collection has since been digitized and can be viewed online. trove Bruce Kovner Mozart Bach Beethoven Brahms Schumann Chopin Schubert Liszt Ravel Stravinsky Copland Ninth Symphony The Marriage of Figaro Grosse Fuge Symphony Number 2 Symphony Number 2 Piano Concerto Number 2 [2]
[] edit Performing ensembles at Juilliard
A performance space at the school.
The Juilliard School provides significant performing experience to its students in a variety of ensembles, including , , , and / groups. Juilliard's orchestras include the Juilliard Orchestra, the New Juilliard Ensemble, the Juilliard Theater Orchestra and the Conductors' Orchestra. The Axiom Ensemble is a student run and managed group dedicated to larger 20th century works. chamber music jazz orchestras vocal choral
In addition, several ensembles of Juilliard Faculty, called Resident Ensembles, perform frequently at the school. These groups include the , the and the New York Woodwind Quintet. Juilliard String Quartet American Brass Quintet
[] edit The Pre-College Division
The Pre-College Division teaches students enrolled in , , and . The Pre-College Division is held on every Saturday from September to May in The Juilliard Building at . elementary junior high high school Lincoln Center
All students study and in addition to their primary instrument. Vocal majors also must study diction and performance. Similarly, pianists must study piano performance. String, brass and woodwind players as well as percussionists also partake in orchestra. The Pre-College has three orchestras. Placement is by age. Those in eighth grade and below participate in the Pre-College Chamber Orchestra. Those in 9th and 10th grade participate in the Pre-College Symphony. 11th and 12th graders participate in the Pre-College Orchestra. Students may study conducting, chorus, and chamber music. solfege music theory
The Pre-College Division began as the "Preparatory Department" within the Institute for Musical Art. Lincoln Center forced Juilliard to abandon the Preparatory Department as a condition of joining the Lincoln Center Campus, because it created the impression of sub-professional quality. The then-current President of Juilliard, Peter Mennin, resurrected the Preparatory Department as the Pre-College Division, with Olegna Fuschi as its Director. The Fuschi/Mennin partnership allowed the Pre-College Division to thrive, affording its graduates training at the highest artistic level (with many of the same teachers as the college division), as well as their own commencement ceremony and diplomas. Following Fuschi, directors of Juilliard's Pre-College Division included Linda Granito and composer Dr. . The current Artistic Director of Juilliard's Pre-College Division is pianist . Andrew Thomas Yoheved Kaplinsky
The Pre-College Division gives Juilliard an important role in training the most talented young musicians at the highest musical standards. Juilliard Pre-College's graduates are counted amongst professional musicians, educated concert goers and financial supporters of classical music.
[] edit Fundraising
The Juilliard Second Century Fund aims to raise $300 million to enable The Juilliard School to sustain its leadership position in performing arts education well into the school s next century. Expanded and renamed on the Juilliard s 100th anniversary, the fund supports six key components that will help Juilliard continue to recruit the world s best young artists and faculty, offer educational programs that uphold the quality of a Juilliard education, and increase the size and functionality of Juilliard's physical plant.
Fund raising specifically targeted to the Pre-College Division began in 2004 with a benefit concert given by The . The event raised $90,000 to establish a Pre-College Parents' Association Scholarship Fund. In 2005, Juilliard produced its own benefit concert for the Pre-College Division featuring its own students led by faculty member and hosted by to add to this fund. The Park Avenue Chamber Symphony Itzhak Perlman Bill Cosby