The Bachelors degree program is open to students who possess a high school diploma or its equivalent. This minimum 120- to 124-credit-hour program is the standard four-year undergraduate degree that most employers want and prepares students for graduate study.
Admissions: Undergraduate Transfer Students
Students who have previously attended a college or university but have not yet earned a Bachelor's degree are undergraduate transfer students eligible to apply to one of the following programs:
offers Associate degrees. The General Studies degree is designed to provide a solid foundation for further academic achievement. Discipline Specific Associate degrees provide students an opportunity to focus on courses that develop knowledge, skills, and abilities that are readily applicable to the students personal or professional interests. Students must possess a high school diploma or its equivalent to be admitted to these programs.Associate of Arts
APUS
All students who enroll in the Associates degree program must enroll in COLL100 / RQ295  Foundations of Online Learning as their first course.
The Associate Degree in General Studies does not qualify as an eligible program for Federal Student Aid (FSA) funds, but the Discipline Specific Associate degrees are eligible for FSA.: Note
The Bachelors degree program is open to students who possess a high school diploma or its equivalent. This minimum 120- to 124-credit-hour program is the standard four-year undergraduate degree that most employers want and prepares students for graduate study.Bachelor's Degree
AMU offers certificate programs at the undergraduate level to applicants who have a high school diploma or its equivalent. Certificate programs allow students to focus on a particular topic of interest through a five- to nine-course program of study. Students choosing certificate programs usually have either an Associate or Bachelors degree and seek specific knowledge in one subject area. Undergraduate Certificates
Choosing Your Academic Program
Selecting the right degree plan is a key step in ensuring a smooth admissions process and a successful educational experience.  Many students come to us unsure of which program to choose and where to begin. Our Admissions Representatives can help you make this important decision.  To speak with an Admissions Representative, call 1-877-777-9081 or email us at info@apus.edu
Tips for Successful Degree Selection
As youre browsing the degree program pages, keep these tips in mind.
Associate and bachelor level programs are both undergraduate degrees
Though it seems logical to earn an Associate degree first and then go on to the BA, that may not always be the best choice
Keep your end goal in mind; choose the degree that best matches your career goals; this may not be the one that nets you the most in transfer credit
Once youve narrowed your options, talk with an Admissions Representative; he or she can assist you in getting a preliminary evaluation of your previous transcripts so you can make a more informed choice
If you are an undergraduate transfer student who has not yet earned an Associate degree, you must submit the following documentation within 15 weeks of your admissions application:Admission Requirements
Transfer Credit Evaluation (TCE) application and fee
All official college transcripts
Signed TRA form
AMU will request all official U.S. college transcripts for the evaluation with receipt of the Transcript Release Authorization form (TRA).  This form is obtained by simply printing the TCE application.  Students will be required to complete, sign, and either fax or email the TRA to us. 
Undergraduate transfer students who have earned an associate degree must also submit an official transcript that documents the conferral of the degree from an institution accredited by a recognized accrediting body. For more details on official documentation needed for admission please contact the admissions department via email at info@apus.edu.
All students with American Council on Education (ACE)-evaluated military or professional experience and education that has to be evaluated for credit also should submit a TCE form and supporting documentation. APU will consider military or civilian training evaluated by ACE as well as approved examinations, such as the College Level Examination Program (CLEP).  For full instructions on TCE, please click .Additional Transfer Credit
here
Undergraduate students who apply at the Associate level may transfer up to a maximum of 45 credit hours; those applying at the Bachelor's level may transfer up to 90 credit hours. Students with no prior college experience may have their ACE-evaluated military or professional experience considered for transfer creditNote:
Mail or Fax Admissions and Transfer Credit Documents
American Public University System 10110 Battleview Parkway, Suite 114 Manassas, VA 20109 Attn:  Student Records
Admissions Fax:  304 724 3787 Transfer Credit Fax:  304 724 3788 Email:
AMU is a member institution of the American Public University System (APUS), which is regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) of the  and nationally accredited by the Accrediting Commission, . North Central Association Distance Education and Training Council
2008 American Military University | 111 W. Congress Street, Charles Town, WV 25414 | Toll Free: 1-877-755-2787 | |  | | | |  |