Add to favorites
Home
Beef and Lamb
The power pack of nutrients
New Zealand beef and lamb are more than just wholesome, versatile ingredients and delicious menu options.
Tasty beef and lamb dishes are excellent sources of many essential nutrients and make an important contribution to the healthy, balanced diet of New Zealanders.
Lean beef and lamb are two of the best absorbed sources of iron. What is often overlooked however, is lean red meat provides a total nutrition package.
Beef and lamb are important sources of protein, B group vitamins including B1, B2, B3, B6 and B12, as well as the essential minerals, iron and zinc.
Lean beef and lamb are nutrient dense foods, in other words, a small serving of lean beef or lamb gives a large amount of important nutrients for health.
There are surprisingly few calories in lean red meat and due to its high protein content, it makes a satisfying meal (helping us feel full for longer), aiding weight control.
to order resources. Click here
Iron
Iron is needed for healthy blood, giving us energy and for brain development in . Iron is found in a number of foods, including red meat. In general, the redder the meat, the higher the iron content. babies
Iron is found in two forms: haem and non haem. Haem iron is absorbed more easily by the body and is found in beef, lamb, liver, kidney, pork, poultry and seafood. Only about 5% of non-haem iron is absorbed and is found in vegetables, bread, breakfast cereals, beans, eggs and fruit.
Red meat can help to increase absorption, boosting the use of non-haem iron by up to four times. Vitamin C has a similar effect. Eating a combination of foods high in both haem and non-haem iron will ensure an iron-rich diet.
Zinc
Zinc is a component of every living cell in the body. It is essential for the structure and function of over 50 enzymes. It is important for growth, sperm production, night vision, appetite, sense of taste and smell, maintaining a strong immune system and for wound healing. Zinc is widely distributed in foods, but the amounts available for absorption vary.
Beef and lamb have a high zinc content. Red meats, especially kidneys and liver, are higher in zinc than poultry, cheese, grains, legumes or vegetables. Beef and lamb are the most commonly eaten sources of zinc in New Zealand.
The type of protein in foods such as beef and lamb promotes zinc absorption. This means zinc is more easily absorbed from meals containing meat. Plant foods such as grains and legumes often contain phytates and dietary fibre, which inhibit zinc absorption.
Protein
Protein is needed to build, repair and maintain body tissues, organs and cells in all parts of the body. Proteins are complex molecules and are made up of different combinations of smaller units called amino acids. Our body can make some of the amino acids needed to manufacture protein and other necessary substances, but certain amino acids must come from the food we eat each day. These are known as the essential amino acids and are required throughout our life.
If a food provides all the essential amino acids for human needs, it is called a high quality protein food.
Beef and lamb are high quality protein foods with an optimum balance of essential amino acids. A serving of 100g cooked lean beef or lamb provides about 27-30g of protein.
Plant proteins, on the other hand, do not have the correct balance of amino acids for human needs, so are considered low quality protein. Plant proteins can be combined to give the full complement of essential amino acids, eg baked beans on toast.
B Vitamins
B group vitamins regulate many chemical reactions necessary to maintain health. Some help release energy in the body, some help to maintain good vision and healthy skin, some are important for optimal brain function, while others are needed for the manufacture of red blood cells.
Beef and lamb contain vitamin B1, B2, B3, B6 and are particularly important dietary sources of vitamin B12.
Vitamin B12 is only found naturally in animal foods, with beef and lamb among the richest sources of this essential nutrient. Just 100g of lean beef provides your total vitamin B12 needs for the day.
On average, beef and lamb provide almost a quarter of New Zealanders’ vitamin B12 intake.
Vitamin D
Vitamin D is involved with calcium in the body to give us strong bones. The main source of vitamin D comes from the sun, where it is synthesised in the skin, but due to limited exposure to ultraviolet rays outside, vitamin D becomes an essential nutrient that must come from our diet.
Traditionally, food sources have included dairy products and oily fish, but beef and lamb could also provide an important amount. Red meat is now known to contain a more potent type of vitamin D, making it an effective source.
Vitamin A
Vitamin A is needed for growth, to keep skin and respiratory (breathing) tracts healthy, for vision (helping eyes to adjust to dim light) and to fight infection.
Liver is an excellent source of vitamin A. However, pregnant women are advised to eat no more than 100g of liver or liver pate per week due to potentially toxic effects on the foetus.
Energy
The energy value of food is measured as kilojoules or calories.
One kilojoule (kJ) = 4.2 calories (cal). The energy value of meat depends mainly on the amount of fat it contains and on the cooking method used for example, frying with added oil will have a higher energy content.
To find out how beef and lamb compare with other foods see table below.
Energy value of some protein foods per 100g
Food