TYPE 1AA TYPE 1A TYPE 1 TYPE 11 TYPE 111
375 lbs. 300 lbs. 250 lbs. 225 lbs. 200 lbs.
Extra Heavy Duty Industrial Extra Heavy Duty Industrial Heavy Duty Industrial Medium Duty Commercial Light Duty Household
 
 
Extensive testing and design requirements determine the appropriate Duty Rating for each ladder model. The rated load capacity includes the combined weight of the user, clothing, tools and any materials on the ladder. The test requirements have been specified with a safety factor of four to ensure the ability of the ladder to meet the Duty Rating. However, the ratings assume proper use of the ladder (especially relating to the placement angle) in order to support the specified load. A ladder is a tool like any other. If it is used properly and according to safety guidelines, it will give many years of trouble free service. However, if proper cautions are not taken, a ladder can be involved in an accident. Please read and follow all instructions and labels accompanying each ladder. Pay close attention to the Duty Rating of the ladder and the combined weight of the user and materials. Select a ladder with the proper capacity. Also, be sure to select a ladder of proper height to reach the work area without overextending. Be aware of wires, electrical devices and live electrical circuits. Metal ladders conduct electricity and can create a danger of electrocution. Failure to read and follow instructions regarding electrical safety could result in serious personal injury or death.
General Ladder Safety
Two factors that deserve particular attention are proper ladder selection and electrical shock precautions:
Inspection Before Each Use
Inspect upon receipt and before each use. Never climb a damaged, bent or broken ladder all working parts must be in good working order.
Make sure all rivets and joints, nuts and bolts are tight; feet, steps and rungs are secure; spreaders and pail shelf function properly (on step ladders); and rung locks, rope and pulley are in good condition (on extension ladders).
If you anticipate the use of chemicals or other possibly corrosive materials, the ladder manufacturer should be consulted before use.
If you are in poor health, subject to fainting spells, have physical handicap that would impair your climbing ability, or if you are under the influence of any drugs or alcohol (including legal drugs that may cause drowsiness), you should not use a ladder.
Do not use in high winds or during a storm.
Stay focused on safety whenever you are on the ladder, and keep your body weight between the rails.
Proper Care & Storage of Ladders
Store ladders in a safe, dry place.
Hang ladders on racks, at internals of 6 feet for support.
Properly secure and support ladders while in transit.
Keep ladders clean and free of foreign materials.
Never store materials on ladders.
Proper Set Up Step Ladders
Do not let ladders of any material come in contact with live electrical wires.DANGER! Metal Conducts Electricity!
Make sure ladder is fully open, spreaders secure, and pail shelf in position.
Place on firm level surface with a secure footing. Do not use on slippery surfaces. No not place on boxes, unstable bases or scaffolds to gain additional height. Do not place in front of door opening toward ladder.
Proper Climbing & Use Step Ladders
Face ladder when climbing up or down, keep body centered between side rails.
Maintain a firm grip. Use both hands in climbing.
Never climb a ladder from the side unless ladder is secure against side wise motion, or climb from one ladder to another.
Do not over reach, move ladder when needed.
Do not walk or jog ladder when standing on it.
Do not stand, climb or site on ladder top, pail shelf, braces, or back section.
Do not overload ladders meant for one person. Do not use as a brace, platform or plank.
Keep ladder close to work, avoid pushing or pulling off the side of ladders.
Proper Set Up Extension Ladders
Do not let ladders of nay material com in contact with live electrical wires.DANGER! Metal Conducts Electricity!
Secure base when raising extension and never set up ladder when it is extended.
Set single or extension ladder at proper 75-1/2 degree angle by bracing ladder base a distance of total working length of ladder away from base of vertical support. If distance is less than 3 ft. place base of ladder a minimum of 3 ft. from vertical support.
Set ladder on firm ground. Do not lean sideways. Do not use on ice or snow or slippery surface without non-skid device or securing feet.
Erect ladder with minimum 3 ft. extending above roof line or working surface, the top at support points.
Extend top section only from ground, never by bouncing or from the roof.
Do not overextend maintain maximum required overlap of sections as follows:
Ladder size up to and including 32  3 overlap
Ladder size over 32 up to and including 36  4 overlap
Ladder size over 48  6 overlap
Place on a firm surface and secure footing. Do not use on slippery surfaces. Do not place on boxes, unstable bases or scaffolds to gain additional height.
Do not place in front of door opening toward ladder.
Where possible, use second person to hold ladder.
Proper Climbing & Use Extension Ladders
Securely engage ladder rung locks before climbing. Check that top and bottom ends of ladder rails are firmly supported.
Face ladder when climbing up or down; keep body centered between rails.
Maintain a firm grip. Use both hands in climbing.
Never climb a ladder from the side unless ladder is secured against side wise motion, or climb from one ladder to another.
Do not stand closer than 3 ft. from the top. Never climb above the top support.
Do not use ladder in high winds.
Never use ladder as a platform, plank or hoist. Never use ladder as a scaffold.
Do not overload. Ladders are meant for one person.
Keep ladder close to work; avoid pushing or pulling off the side of ladders.
Never drop or apply an impact load to ladder.
Do not "walk" or "shift" ladder when standing on it.