How to Play the Flute, Trombone & Trumpet Sign In Sign Up — It's Free!
Forgot Password?
Forgot your Password? Enter your username or email address in the box and you will recieve a link through your email with instructions on how to reset your password.
Email
How to Play the Flute, Trombone & Trumpet
You are viewing an Expert Village Video Series:
The flute, trombone and trumpet are popular instruments in school bands. Learn how these instruments work, as well as how to play and clean them in this free series on music lessons and instrument care from a music store manager.
There are 14 videos in this series:
How Do Trumpets Work?
The valves of a trumpet create different sounds by affecting the tone and pitch of the air moving through the trumpet. Learn how trumpets work in this free music-education video on music lessons and instrument care from a music store manager.
How to Begin to Play the Trumpet
When learning how to play the trumpet, find out about the different parts such as the mouthpiece, then learn basic notes from a beginning book or an instructor. Get started playing the trumpet in this free music-education video on music lessons and instrument care from a music store manager.
How to Buy a Trombone
When buying a trombone, ask an instructor for brand recommendations; start with a student model and work up from there. Buy a trombone with the tips in this free music-education video on music lessons and instrument care from a music store manager.
How to Buy a Trumpet
When looking for a trumpet to buy, try a local music store for new instruments to buy and rent or consult their repair staff to fix a trumpet purchased elsewhere. Buy a trumpet with the tips in this free music-education video on music lessons and instrument care from a music store manager.
How to Clean a Flute
When cleaning a flute, use a flute cleaning cloth and a flute cleaning rod to reach the inside of the flute. Clean a flute with the tips in this free music-education video on music lessons and instrument care from a music store manager.
How to Clean a Trombone
When cleaning a trombone at home, use a trombone cleaning kit, which includes a mouthpiece brush and brushes for cleaning all of the tubes. Clean a trombone with the tips in this free music-education video on music lessons and instrument care from a music store manager.
How to Clean a Trumpet
When cleaning a trumpet, use the different brushes found in a trumpet cleaning kit along with soap and lukewarm water. Clean a trumpet with the tips in this free music-education video on music lessons and instrument care from a music store manager.
Parts of a Flute
The parts of a flute include the head joint, which is what players blow into in order to play notes, the body, which is where the keys are located, and the foot joint. Find out the parts of a flute in this free music-education video on music lessons and instrument care from a music store manager.
The Parts of the Trombone
The trombone slide, which creates different notes when moved to different positions, is the most important part of the trombone. Learn the parts of a trombone in this free music-education video on music lessons and instrument care from a music store manager.
3,902 14
Views:Videos in Series:
This email was brought to you via Expert Village
How to Play the Flute, Trombone & TrumpetTitle:
(separate email addresses with a comma)To
From
Clear
From Louie to Dizzy to Chet to Miles, and now Wynton and Roy Hargrove, the trumpet has always been one the most popular lead instruments in jazz. Though it does show up in rock, funk and reggae horn sections, and even has a few classical pieces written for it as the lead instrument, our most vivid image of the trumpet is that of a darkened club with wisps of smoke floating around a well-dressed horn player. The trombone is also a popular jazz instrument, especially in larger ensembles. While not as common in jazz ensembles, the flute continues to be a mainstay in symphony orchestras. In this free series of video music lessons, a music store manager will demonstrate the basics of playing the flute, trombone and trumpet. Learn how the trumpet works, how to identify the parts of the trumpet, as well as how to clean it. Also learn how to clean and play a flute and a trombone, as well as how to play them. Chris Behrens will demonstrate playing tips for all three of these instruments and how to play scales on the trumpet.Summary:
About the Expert
Contact: summerhaysmusic.com
Chris Behrens is the sales manager of Summerhays Music in Murray, Utah. He has a degree in band instrument repair from Red Wing Tech College and spent his first five years with Summerhays repairing instruments. Expert:
Watch these related videos