Royal Palms Resort and Spa
   Phoenix, Arizona
The Royal Palms consists of 117 beautifully appointed guest rooms surrounded by lush courtyards and gardens. Mirroring the Mediterranean villa style of the mansion, each room is appointed with a breathtaking collection of international antiques, tiles, and artifacts.
There are four types of rooms available:  Casitas, Deluxe Casitas, Plaza Rooms, and Plaza Suites.  Casitas, which are located in the Valencia Gardens, feature French doors walking out onto semi-private patios with beautiful views of Camelback Mountain, Citrus Orange Grove, and the Croquet Lawn. These intimate rooms have rustic Mediterranean decor, canopy beds and romantic fireplaces. The maximum occupancy is two.
Royal Palms has 16 Deluxe Casitas that were each individually designed by the American Society of Interior Designers. These rooms, which are located in the Arcadia section of the hotel, feature patios, charming fireplaces, and step-in showers with skylights. These rooms are all in a Mediterranean style, but are unique in their decor. The maximum occupancy is two.
Plaza Rooms feature a rustic Mediterranean decor.  These rooms surround a common courtyard with beautiful views of Camelback Mountain and offer the choice of a king bed or two double beds with the option of connecting rooms. The maximum occupancy is four.
Lastly, Plaza Suites feature a king bed with a separate living area from the bedroom. Patios, balconies, and a common courtyard that is finished with an outdoor fireplace surround them. They are attractively decorated in a rustic Mediterranean decor. The maximum occupancy is two.
Room amenities for all rooms include private patios, handcrafted artifacts, custom furnishings, fireplaces, balconies, minibars, wall safes, 27” remote control stereo/televisions, and multi-line and cordless phones.  Many of the guestrooms also feature fireplaces and balconies. Personal amenities include robes, make-up mirrors, hair dryers, and the finest linens and toiletries. Complimentary guest services include valet parking, shoe shining, business services, a bowl of fresh fruit, in-room coffee, and nightly turndown.
Converted Resort Luxurious Service