Understanding DUI Scientific Evidence
This product provides an insider's perspective on the evolving technologies and procedures associated with the evidence associated with driving under the influence (DUI) charges. Leading defense attorneys guide the reader through the key stages and steps involved in successfully defending a client accused of driving while under the influence.
Drivers License
\ driving records are governed by Arkansas Little Rock . There is a charge for obtaining a copy of your drivers license record in Arkansas
A DUI or DWI conviction can have a significant impact on driving privileges and/or insurance rates. In terms of driving privileges, the length of a possible suspension or revocation may vary depending on a defendant’s previous record, and the discretion of the judge. The laws of the individual 50 states generally determine the driving privileges of a person within the state. Does this mean that a person can avoid the effects of a DUI or DWI conviction simply by going to another state? The answer is: probably not.
NOTE: Colorado DUI Attorney Jim Forslund may be able to avoid this problem for you.  .  The Secret To Getting A Colorado Driver License If You've Lost Your License in Another State
There are a couple of agreements between a large number of the various states in the union that make it difficult to escape the penalties of a DUI or DWI conviction—namely the Interstate Driver’s License Compact and the Non Resident Violator Compact.
Interstate Driver’s License Compact
This is an agreement among 45 participating states to share information regarding certain types of convictions, including drunk driving offenses, such as DUI or DWI. Georgia, Massachusetts, Michigan, Tennessee, and Wisconsin are the only states not belonging to the compact. Under the agreement if a person gets convicted of a drunk driving offense in another state in which he or she resides, the person’s home state will be advised.
The agreement essentially means that, in the 45 member states, there is one driving record for an individual person. This means that if your license is suspended in one of the member states, it is suspended in the other member states as well. Driving privileges cannot then be reinstated until, the privileges are reinstated in the convicting state, or a hearing is held in one of the non-convicting states, and a hearing officer authorizes reinstatement.
For example, if your license is suspended or revoked in another state, you cannot get an Illinois license. When you apply for a Illinois license, you are asked if your license is suspended or revoked in another state. If it is, you cannot legally get a license in Illinois until one of the following occurs: (1) You are reinstated in the other state; (2) You are authorized to reinstate and obtain a license after having a hearing with a Department of Revenue Hearing Officer.
NOTE: Colorado DUI Attorney Jim Forslund may be able to avoid this problem for you.  .  The Secret To Getting A Colorado Driver License If You've Lost Your License in Another State
Non Resident Violator Compact
This is an agreement between some 44 states designed to achieve enforcement of penalties for traffic offenses in the various states. The only states that have not joined the compact are: Alaska, California, Michigan, Montana, Oregon, and Wisconsin. Under the agreement, a person who has not paid fines, or taken care of penalties for traffic offenses in another state, can have his license taken away, and/or suspended in the state in which he is driving—until the person’s obligations in the aggrieved state are met.
Having the ability to drive a car is important for many people. Without a car, it is sometime hard to get to work and provide for a family. If you are concerned about protecting your driving privileges, it would be a good idea to hire a quality defense lawyer who understands the intricacies of DUI and DWI cases. Consider hiring one of  now. America’s DUI and DWI Defense Attorneys
Please consult an attorney for legal advice on actual application in your state.State laws may vary.
OBTAINING DRIVER’S LICENSE RECORDS