8 References
[] edit Origin of the word
The first attests the word in English in 1618. It derives from modern , drawing on (), meaning "Synchronization with Crete." Oxford English Dictionary syncretism Latin syncretismus Greek synkretismos
The Greek word occurs in 's (1st century AD) essay on "Fraternal Love" in his (2.490b). He cites the example of the , who reconciled their differences and came together in alliance when faced with external dangers. "And that is their so-called " Plutarch Moralia Cretans Syncretism.
probably coined the modern usage of the Latin word (in his ("Adages"), published in the winter of 1517 1518) to designate the coherence of in spite of their differences in theological opinions. In a letter to of April 22, 1519, Erasmus specifically adduced the Cretans of Plutarch as an example of his adage "Concord is a mighty rampart". Erasmus Adagia dissenters Melanchthon
[] edit Social and political roles
Overt syncretism in folk belief may show cultural acceptance of an alien or previous tradition, but the "other" cult may survive or infiltrate without authorized nevertheless. For example, some developed a sort of for martyr-victims of the , thus incorporating elements of while resisting it.syncresis Conversos cult Spanish Inquisition Catholicism
Some religious movements have embraced overt syncretism, such as the case of the adoption of elements into as well as the adoption of Germanic and Celtic pagan elements into Catholicism during Christianity's spread into Gaul, the British Isles and Germany. Others have strongly rejected it as devaluing precious and genuine distinctions; examples of this include post- and . Shint Buddhism Exile Judaism Islam
Syncretism tends to facilitate coexistence and constructive interaction between different cultures (), a factor that has recommended it to rulers of multi-ethnic . Conversely the rejection of syncretism, usually in the name of "" and "," may help to generate, bolster or authorize a sense of in a well-defined minority or majority. intercultural competence realms piety orthodoxy cultural unity
[] edit Religious syncretism
Religious syncretism exhibits blending of two or more religious belief systems into a new system, or the incorporation into a religious tradition of beliefs from unrelated traditions. This can occur for many reasons, and the latter scenario happens quite commonly in areas where multiple religious traditions exist in proximity and function actively in the culture, or when a culture is conquered, and the conquerors bring their religious beliefs with them, but do not succeed in entirely eradicating the old beliefs or, especially, practices.
Religions may have syncretic elements to their beliefs or history, but adherents of so-labeled systems often frown on applying the label, especially adherents who belong to "revealed" religious systems, such as the , or any system that exhibits an approach. Such adherents sometimes see syncretism as a betrayal of their pure truth. By this reasoning, adding an incompatible belief corrupts the original religion, rendering it no longer true. Indeed, critics of a specific syncretistic trend may sometimes use the word "syncretism" as a disparaging epithet, as a charge implying that those who seek to incorporate a new view, belief, or practice into a religious system actually distort the original faith. Non-exclusivist systems of belief, on the other hand, may feel quite free to incorporate other traditions into their own. Abrahamic religions exclusivist
In modern society, religious innovators sometimes create new religions syncretically as a mechanism to reduce inter-religious tension and enmity, often with the effect of offending the original religions in question. Such religions, however, do maintain some appeal to a less exclusivist audience. Discussions of some of these blended religions appear in the individual sections below. secular
[] edit Ancient Greece
Syncretism functioned as an essential feature of religion. Overall, culture in the age that followed itself showed syncretist features, essentially blending of , , (and eventually -) elements within an Hellenic formula. The god developed as the Hellenized after went into the desert to seek out Amun's at . Ancient Greek Hellenistic Alexander the Great Persian Anatolian Egyptian Etruscan Roman Egyptian Amun Ammon Zeus Alexander the Great oracle Siwa
Such identifications derive from , the Hellenic habit of identifying gods of disparate with their own. When the proto-Greeks (peoples whose language would evolve into Greek proper) first arrived in the and on the mainland of modern-day Greece early in the , they found localized and already connected with every important feature of the landscape: , , and all had their own locally-venerated . The countless of the reflect their syncretic identification with these various figures. One defines "" (worshipped only at ) as "the god identical to Zeus as worshipped by the at Dodona". Much of the apparently arbitrary and trivial mythic results from later mythographers' attempts to explain these obscure epithets. interpretatio graeca mythologies Aegean 2nd millennium BCE nymphs divinities mountain cave grove spring deity epithets Olympian gods Zeus Molossos Dodona Molossians fabling
[] edit Judaism
In made a case for arising out of the pre-existing that was briefly imposed upon during the rule of . , the disk of the in ancient Egyptian mythology, and originally an aspect of , was chosen as the sole deity for Akhenaten's new religion. The "" is also cited as a likely starting point for the Jewish . was from the culture that revered , among others. Judaism fought lengthy battles against syncretist tendencies: note the case of the and the railing of against , and local , as told in the . On the other hand, some hold that Judaism refined its concept of monotheism and adopted features such as its , and through contacts with .Moses and Monotheism, Sigmund Freud Judaism monotheism Egypt Akhenaten Aten sun Ra Code of Hammurabi Ten Commandments Hammurabi Mesopotamian Marduk golden calf prophets temple prostitution witchcraft fertility cults Tanakh scholars eschatology angelology demonology Zoroastrianism [1] [2] [3]
In spite of the Jewish prohibitions on , , and associated practices (), several combinations of Judaism with other religions have sprung up: , , , , , (in which Jews publicly profess another faith and privately celebrate Judaism), and others. Until relatively recently, had a Jewish community which had adopted some practices. halakhic polytheism idolatry avodah zarah Jewish Buddhism Nazarenism Judeo-Paganism Messianic Judaism Jewish Mormonism Crypto-Judaism China Confucian [] citation needed
Several of the claimants (such as ) and the came to mix Judaism with Christianity and Islam. Jewish Messiah Jacob Frank Sabbateans Cabalistic
[] edit Roman world
The , identifying themselves as common heirs to a very similar civilization, identified with similar figures in the , though without usually copying . (For details, see .) Syncretic of the Hellenistic period found also wide favor in Rome: , and , for example. as worshipped in Rome essentially represented a syncretic East Mediterranean . The Romans imported the Greek god into Rome, where he merged with the Latin mead god Liber, and converted the Anatolian into the Roman . Romans Greek deities Etruscan-Roman tradition cult practices Interpretatio graeca gods Serapis Isis Mithras Cybele goddess Dionysus Sabazios Sabazius
The degree of correspondence varied: makes perhaps a better match for than the rural huntress does for the feared . does not quite match . The Romans physically imported the Anatolian goddess into Rome from her Anatolian cult-center in the form of her original aniconic archaic stone ; they identified her as and gave her a matronly, iconic image developed in Hellenistic . Jupiter Zeus Diana Artemis Ares Mars Cybele Pessinos idol Magna Mater Pergamum
Likewise, when the Romans encountered and , they mingled these peoples' Northern gods with their own, creating (Apollo the Good Smiter) and (Mars of the war-assembly), among many others. In the , the Roman historian speaks of Teutonic worshippers of and ; most modern scholars tentatively identify Hercules as and Mercury as . Celts Teutons Apollo Sucellos Mars Thingsus Germania Tacitus Hercules Mercury Thor Odin
See also:  and Ecumenism sobornost
Nascent appears to have emerged from many Jewish and pagan cultural elements, at least partially, whilst discarding theologically or morally incompatible elements. Note for example the strong connection between the thought of and thought; and ' many citations of "The Philosopher" (). Most scholars agree with this syncretism in principle. Medieval engaged in prolonged and bitter debate over the place of pre-Christian classicism within the official Church teachings. (a subset of Protestant Evangelicals) assert that by the 3rd and 4th centuries had incorporated into its understanding of God. Christianity St. Augustine Neoplatonic St. Thomas Aquinas Aristotle scholasticism Open Theists Christianity Greek Philosophy
Syncretism did not play a role when Christianity split into and rites during the . It became involved however with the rifts of the , with 's readings of Plutarch. In 1615 of urged Christians to a "pious syncretism" in opposing the , but few 17th-century Protestants discussed the compromises that might affect a reconciliation with the Catholic Church: , and (1612 1685) opposed the (1586 1656) of the for his . (See: .) eastern western Great Schism Protestant Reformation Desiderius Erasmus David Pareus Heidelberg [] citation needed Antichrist Johann H lsemann Johann Georg Dorsche Abraham Calovius Lutheran Georg Calisen "Calixtus" University of Helmstedt "syncretism" Syncretistic Strife
This section Please if you can.may require to meet Wikipedia's . cleanup quality standards improve this section
(November 2008)
The modern celebrations of (as celebrated in the northern European tradition, originating from pagan holidays), (as celebrated in the eastern European tradition, with the incorporation of spring ) and exemplify details of Christian/pagan syncretism. Earlier, the elevation of Christmas as an important holiday largely grew out of a need to replace the , a popular December festival of the Roman Empire. Christmas Yule Easter fertility rites Halloween Saturnalia
Roman Catholicism in and has integrated a number of elements derived from and slave cultures in those areas (see and ); while many demonstrate an integration of Christian and traditional African beliefs. In Asia the revolutionary movements of (19th-century China) and ( in the 1990s) have blended Christianity and traditional beliefs. Traditional Catholics nonetheless often argue against "cafeteria Catholicism", or the act of "picking and choosing" what one wants to believe or practice. Central South America indigenous the Caribbean modern sections African Initiated Churches Taiping God's Army Karen
One can contrast Christian syncretism with or , the practice of making Christianity relevant to a culture. contextualization inculturation
[] edit Syncretistic Strife of the 17th century
The phrase "Syncretistic Strife" may refer to the theological quarrel provoked by the efforts of and his supporters to secure a basis on which the could make overtures to the and the Churches. It lasted from 1640 to 1686. Calixt, a professor at , had through his travels in , the , , and , through his acquaintance with the different Churches and their representatives, and through his extensive study, developed a more friendly attitude towards the different religious bodies than the majority of his contemporary Lutheran theologians. While the latter firmly adhered to the "pure doctrine," Calixt tended not to regard doctrine as the one thing necessary for a Christian, while in doctrine itself he did not regard everything as equally certain and important. Consequently, he advocated unity between those who agreed on the fundamental minimum, with liberty as to all less fundamental points. In regard to Catholicism, he would have (as once would have) conceded to the a primacy human in origin, and he also admitted that one might call the a sacrifice. Georg Calixt Lutherans Roman Catholic Reformed Helmstedt England Netherlands Italy France Melanchthon pope Mass
On the side of Calixt stood the theological faculties of , , and ; opposed to him stood those of , , , , , and . in especial opposed Calixt. The , for political reasons, opposed the , because the other two secular (Palatine and Brandenburg) were "," and were getting more and more the advantage of him. In 1649 he sent to the three dukes of Brunswick, who maintained Helmstedt as their common university, a communication in which he voiced all the objections of his Lutheran professors, and complained that Calixt wished to extract the elements of truth from all religions, fuse all into an entirely new religion, and so provoke a violent schism. In 1650 Calov became a professor at Wittenberg, and he signalized his entrance into office with a vehement attack on the Syncretists in Helmstedt. An outburst of polemical writings followed. In 1650 the dukes of Brunswick answered the Elector of Saxony that the discord should not be allowed to increase, and proposed a meeting of the political councillors. Saxony, however, did not favour this suggestion. An attempt to convene a meeting of theologians was not more successful. The theologians of Wittenberg and Leipzig now elaborated a new formula, condemning ninety-eight heresies of the Helmstedt theologians. This formula (consensus) was to be signed by everyone who wished to remain in the Lutheran Church. Outside Wittenberg and Leipzig, however, it was not accepted, and Calixt's death in 1656 ushered in five years of almost undisturbed peace. Helmstedt Rinteln K nigsberg Leipzig Jena Strasburg Giessen Marburg Greifswald Abraham Calov Elector of Saxony Reformed Church electors reformed
The strife broke out afresh in , where sought to effect a union between his and subjects, or at least to lessen their mutual hatred. In 1661 he had a between the Lutheran theologians of the and the Reformed theologians of the . Enraged at this revival of the syncretism of Calixt, the Wittenberg theologians in vehement terms called on the Rinteln professors to make their submission, whereupon the latter answered with a detailed defence. Another long series of polemical treatises followed. In Brandenburg-Prussia the Great Elector (Frederick William I) forbade (1663) preachers to speak of the disputes between the Evangelical bodies. A long colloquy in Berlin (September 1662 to May 1663) led only to fresh discord. In 1664 the elector repeated his command that preachers of both parties should abstain from mutual abuse, and should attribute to the other party no doctrine which was not actually held by such party. Whoever refused to sign the form declaring his intention to observe this regulation, was deprived of his position (e. g. , writer of religious songs). This arrangement was later modified, in that the forms were withdrawn, and action took place only against those who disturbed the peace. The attempts of the Wittenberg theologians to declare Calixt and his school un-Lutheran and were now met by Calixt's son, Friedrich Ulrich Calixt, The latter defended the theology of his father, but also tried to show that his doctrine did not so very much differ from that of his opponents. Wittenberg found its new champion in , who attacked Calixt with all the resources of learning, polemics, sophistry, wit, cynicism, and abuse. The Helmstedt side was defended by the celebrated scholar and statesman, . The Saxon princes now recognized the danger that the attempt to carry through the "Consensus" as a formula of belief might lead to a fresh schism in the , and might thus render its position difficult in the face of the Catholics. The proposals of Calov and his party to continue the refutation and to compel the Brunswick theologians to bind themselves under obligation to the old Lutheran confession therefore remained unimplemented. On the contrary, the Saxon theologians were forbidden to continue the strife in writing. Negotiations for peace then resulted, with Duke of especially active towards this end, and the project of establishing a permanent college of theologians to decide theological disputes was entertained. However, the negotiations with the courts of Brunswick, Mecklenburg, Denmark, and Sweden remained as fruitless as those with the theological faculties, except that peace was maintained until 1675. then renewed hostilities. He now attacked not only Calixt, but also and particularly the moderate of Jena. Calov succeeded in having the whole (and after a long resistance Mus us himself) compelled to renounce syncretism. But this was his last victory. The elector renewed his prohibition against polemical writings. Calov seemed to give way, since in 1683 he asked whether, in the view of the danger which France then constituted for Germany, a Calixtinic Syncretism with "" and the were still condemnable, and whether in deference to the and the dukes of Brunswick, the strife should not be buried by an amnesty, or whether, on the contrary, the war against syncretism should be continued. He later returned to his attack on the syncretists, but died in 1686, and with his death the strife ended. Hesse-Kassel Landgrave William VI Lutheran Reformed colloquy held in Kassel University of Rinteln University of Marburg Paul Gerhardt heretical gidius Strauch Hermann Conring Lutheran Church Ernst the Pious Saxe-Gotha Calov John Mus us University of Jena Papists Reformed Elector of Brandenburg
The Syncretist Strife had the result of lessening religious hatred and of promoting mutual forbearance. thus benefited, as came to better understand and appreciate it. In Protestant theology it prepared the way for the sentimental theology of as the successor of fossilized . Catholicism Protestants Pietism orthodoxy
This article incorporates text from the public-domain Catholic Encyclopedia of 1913.
[] edit Islam
Some scholars regard Islam as incorporating syncretically from other religions, particularly , , and . Muslims do not regard this as syncretism, as they see Islam as a completion of divine revelations from Jewish and Christian prophets. It is a fundamental tenet of Islamic faith to believe in the consistency of message in the revelations from one God through many messengers to their people (Quran 2:285) and claims to be the revitalization of the original pure teaching of . In traditional Islamic belief, the revelations in the Bible and Torah, over time, eventually became corrupted because of the lack of written manuscripts, serial translations from one language to another, or simply forgotten.[] who? Judaism Christianity Zoroastrianism Allah [] citation needed
[] edit Druze religion
The integrated elements of with and . Their practice of disguising themselves as followers of the dominant religion around them makes it difficult to distinguish belief from simulated belief. Druzes Ismaili Islam Gnosticism Platonism
[] edit Christianity
The origination from the teaching of a Jewish-born and raised individual, , may be considered a form of syncretism. Christianity, like all major world religions, has adopted doctrinal stances, practices and observances which are derived from other, sometimes earlier religious traditions. Christian Jesus of Nazareth
[] edit Bah ' Faith
The follow , a prophet whom they consider a successor to , , , , and others. This acceptance of other religious founders has encouraged some to regard the Bah ' religion as a syncretic faith. However, Bah ' s and the Bah ' writings explicitly reject this view. Bah ' s consider Bah 'u'll h's revelation an independent, though related, revelation from God. Its relationship to previous is seen as analogous to the relationship of Christianity to Judaism. They regard beliefs held in common as evidence of truth, throughout human history, and culminating in (at present) the Bah ' revelation. Bah ' s have their own , interpretations, laws and practices that, for Bah ' s, supersede those of other faiths. Bah ' s Bah 'u'll h Muhammad Jesus Moses Buddha Zoroaster dispensations progressively revealed by God sacred scripture [4]
[] edit Caribbean religions and cultures
The process of syncretism in the region often forms a part of cultural creolization. (The technical term "" may apply to anyone (regardless of race or ethnicity) born and raised in the region.) The shared histories of the Caribbean islands include long periods of European (mainly by , , and the ) and the importation of African (primarily from Central and Western ). The influences of each of the above interacted in varying degrees on the islands, producing the fabric of society that exists today in the Caribbean. Caribbean Creole Imperialism Spain France United Kingdom slaves Africa
The , founded in , syncretizes vigorously, mixing elements from the , 's movement, , and . Rastafari movement Jamaica Bible Marcus Garvey Pan Africanism Hinduism Caribbean culture
Another highly syncretic religion of the area, , combines elements of Western African, native Caribbean, and (especially ) beliefs. vodou Christian Roman Catholic