.: .: Satellite.info Satellite TV General Info Satellite TV - The Birth of Satellite TV
Satellite TV - The Birth of Satellite TV
Few people realize the birth of satellite TV began with the space race of the 1950's and 60's. On October 4, 1957, the Russian's put the first satellite, Sputnik, into orbit. The United States quickly responded with a launch of a satellite on January 1, 1958.
These initial satellites were used primarily for scientific purposes. As NASA perfected the launch and deployment of satellites, the private sector paid attention, keeping their eyes open for a future business opportunity. Their challenge was to figure out what other tasks the satellites could accomplish besides scientific data collection.
An international consortium of business people banded together to research possible satellite applications. This consortium quickly developed a satellite system that was essential for business satellite applications and the start of satellite TV -- geosynchronous satellites. Geosynchronous satellites seem to remain in a fixed orbit over the earth. In reality, the satellite travels at the same orbit speed and pattern as the earth's movement. This allows a satellite-receiving dish to be pointed at a fixed position in the sky, exchanging signals, instead of constantly searching for the satellites position.
With a fixed satellite position and a receiving dish, TV transmission was the next logical step in use of satellites. The first satellite TV transmission was in 1976, when Home Box Office (HBO) delivered programming to their cable subscribers through the satellite TV transmission of a heavyweight-boxing match.
Other networks soon followed, with delivery of their programming through satellite transmission. In 1977, the Christian Broadcasting Network and Turner Broadcasting Systems were launched. In addition, the Society for Private and Commercial Earth Stations (SPACE) was established. SPACE was the precursor of the Satellite Television Industry Association. Shortly after, COMSAT/Satellite Television Corporation requested the ability to construct and operate a Direct Broadcast Satellite (). And the race for satellite TV was off and running. DBS
Article