Reading Comprehension
 
This is a partial free sample of our prep guide. To view the remainder of this page, purchase the .
 
Typically, your verbal test will include 4 Reading Comprehension passages, with 3 to 4 questions per passage, for a total of 12 to 14 questions of the 41 verbal questions. Each passage engages with a specialized topic or opinion in either the Humanities, Social Sciences, Science, or Business, but no specific outside knowledge of the material is required; all questions refer to what is stated or implied in the text.
The directions for these questions look like this:
Each passage is followed by questions about its content. After reading a passage, select the best answer to each question among the five choices. Answer all questions following a passage on the basis of what the passage states or implies.Directions:
A passage and a corresponding question look like this:
The screen will split into two with the passage on the left and the questions on the right. You will only see one question at a time. The passage will remain on your computer screen until you have answered all of the questions related to it. The GMAT is a (computer-adaptive test) so the questions will begin at an intermediate skill level and . In general, average test takers will get about 50% right of the questions right. As result, higher scorers are effectively taking a completely different test from lower scorers and their strategies will be adjusted accordingly. Higher scorers will get longer and more challenging essays and questions. This chapter has sections specifically designed to help higher scorers with the harder passages.Don't neglect to scroll down vertically to read the entire passage.
CAT adapt to your performance by changing in difficulty
 
If you are extremely good at sentence correction and weak at reading comp and critical reasoning.... guess what? Your skill in sentence correction will make the GMAT deliver you very hard reading comp and critical reasoning questions. The moral of the story.... be balanced on verbal and skilled at all three question types.How the CAT impacts verbal difficulty
Pacing