Home — Get Out of Town
Search HV/Net
Any Word All Words
“Get Out of Town!"
Feeling pent up and just want to get out of "The City" for a day or a weekend? Have you heard the rumors, (they're true you know...), about the traffic nightmares heading out to Long Island? Jersey and miles and miles of metropolis don't appeal to you?
Hmmmmmm, what to do, what to do...
Have we got the solution for you! It's called the Hudson Valley! And guess what!?! You're already there!
Point your compass to the North and drive, walk, bike, jog, take the train, take the bus or even take the water taxi. In minutes you will leave the congestion and traffic behind and find yourself nestled in the bosom of the most beautiful river valley in the world, the Hudson River Valley. Possibly the best kept secret about New York City!
What's the secret? Well, here's the thing, New York City is the bottom reach of this most magnificent of valleys. From NYC you can leave in only three directions: East out onto Long Island, West into New Jersey or, (drum roll please....) north into the Hudson Valley.
The "Official" Valley starts at the border of the Bronx and includes the counties to the north of Westchester, Rockland, Putnam, Orange, Dutchess, Ulster, Columbia, Greene, Albany and Rensselaer. The Valley stretches for roughly 120 miles passing through imposing river gorges and rolling hills. It encompasses the great estates of the rich and famous robber barons on the East Bank and Woodstock on the West Bank. It holds large cities, (Poughkeepsie, Middletown, Kingston, Albany), picturesque towns and quaint villages and hamlets. Within the Hudson Valley can be found the highest concentration of major historic sites in the United States, ranging from colonial settlements to Revolutionary War encampments to baronial mansions to commercial developments to the early governments of New York State. The Valley has battlefields, forts, cottages, industry, Presidents, the rich and famous, the small and unknown, waves of immigration, movements of colonization, the birthplace of ecology, art, architecture, Peace & Love, the Long Grey Line at West Point, mountains, and recreational opportunities of every description and type.
Whatever your interests, be they grand outdoor sculpture or small hidden nooks and crannies, you can find it, and more just to the north.
So come on up and discover what the rest of us have. Life in The City can be grand, but life in the Valley can be spectacular!!! Here are a couple of ideas for you to follow on your visit to our most beautiful valley.
Excerpts from the NY State Scenic Byways Guide
The Hudson River Valley, designated as a National Heritage Area by Congress in November 1966, is the "landscape that defined America." The region has played a significant role in shaping the history of the United States for nearly 400 years.
The Hudson River, flowing about 120 miles through 10 counties, is dotted by a mix of riverside villages and small cities. The historic river towns of Westchester along the majestic Hudson offer spectacular views of the Palisades and opportunities to visit numerous villages, artists lofts, antique shops and historic sites such as Kykuit in the village of Sleepy Hollow.
The Hudson River's dramatic landscape begins with wide expanses along the Palisades. Heading north, it narrows and opens as it passes through the majestic Hudson Highlands, then turns, presenting a commanding view of the US Military Academy at West Point. As the Hudson River continues northward toward Albany, its landscape and shoreline become more subdued with gentle rolling hills dotted with farmsteads bordered by the picturesque Catskill Mountains in the West and the Taconic Mountains in the East.
The Hudson River Valley, renowned for its natural beauty and scenic resources, has lured artists, architects and writers to its shores. It is the birthplace of the , the largest artistic movement in the United States, as well as home to over 200 national historic sites, ranging from grand mansions of "" to the rustic homesteads of early colonial settlers.Hudson River School of Painting Millionaires Row
The Hudson River Valley has served and continues to serve as a major transportation route for commerce and travel connecting the East Coast to the Midwest. The area's rich agricultural heritage flourishes on both sides of the Hudson River, producing outstanding , , dairy products and other crops. The Hudson River Valley hosts a long tradition as a tourist destination, beginning in the mid-1800s as a retreat for wealthy industrialists and serving as the gateway to the Catskill Mountains and resorts. It now offers a variety of recreational opportunities year round for visitors and residents alike. vineyards orchards
A Tour Through the Hudson Valley
Touring the scenic roads of the Hudson Valley is an exhilarating journey through farms, historic sites, picturesque cottages, magnificent homes, wonderful gardens and breathtaking panoramas.
There's a wonderful trail that runs through Dutchess County and passes through the Hyde Park historic sites, Rhinebeck and Red Hook. Also along the way, you'll be able to stop at farm stands that offer fresh produce and refreshments to make your trip more enjoyable.
You'll be starting in Hyde Park, at , birthplace of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt. This grand house, built around 1800, was purchased by the Roosevelt family in 1867, 15 years before FDR's birth. Next, you'll be heading north on Route 9 to the . Once at the mansion site, you may wish to take the tour of the marble mansion built by Frederick Vanderbilt and completed in 1899. The mansion's interiors were partly decorated by Ogden Codman, author of "The Decoration of Houses", one of the first books to note the correlation between interior decoration and architecture. Springwood Vanderbilt Mansion>
As you head further north into Staasburg, you may want to stop at an antique shop along the way. Then --if you're still up for mansions -- stop at the , a 100-year-old, 79-room Beaux Arts "country estate" opulently furnished with lush Flemish tapestries, gilded plasterwork, marble and oak paneling. You'll marvel at the mansion's paintings, period furnishings and Oriental art objects. Mills Mansion
Eleven miles into your trip, you'll arrive at Rhinebeck. Stop at Beekman Arms, the oldest continuously operating hotel in the United States, at the corner of Route 9 and Market Street. Many places may claim it, but yes, George Washington did sleep here. The hotel's restaurant features American regional cuisine, with everything prepared from scratch. Adjoining the restaurant is the historic Beekman 1766 Tavern.
After leaving Rhinebeck, you'll experience miles of lush Hudson Valley countryside. Following our trail, you may wish to visit the Old Rhinebeck Aerodrome, where you can thrill to the pioneering days of aviation. Watch vintage bi-planes perform aerial acrobatics and even engage in mock dogfights with other planes. You can even fly over the countryside in a vintage bi-plane.
After you've resumed your road tour, you may wish to stop at the Greig Farm in Red Hook, the most northern portion of our tour, for apples, cheeses, pies and other refreshments to send you on your way back to Hyde Park. If you're up to it, you may even pick your own apples.
A Tour Along the Taconic State Parkway
The Taconic State Parkway was designed to ensure that the New York State Parks within the Taconic region could be easily accessed and enjoyed. Spend a day or more traveling this roadway and enjoy the beauty of the region. Easily accessible from New York City, the Taconic Parkway provides a gateway to the country, connecting Westchester, Putnam, Dutchess and Columbia counties.
In Columbia County, Taghkanic State Park is located off the Taconic State Parkway between Routes 199 and 82. Taghkanic State Park offers swimming, camping, cottage rentals, picnic areas, boat rentals, two bathing beaches and hiking trails.
Traveling further north on the Parkway, take the Hillsdale exit (Route 23) and, heading toward Hillsdale, turn right (about three miles) onto County Route 11A. This National Beauty Award Highway offers a pleasurable drive through scenic vistas. To return to the parkway, follow signs for Copake and Hillsdale, returning to Route 23.
Continue north on the parkway, exiting at Chatham, Route 203. Following signs to Chatham, turn right at the first light (Route 295) and stop and enjoy the many shops and eateries found in the village of Chatham. (For a noteworthy side trip, follow signs out of the village to the Shaker Museum, Route 66 to County Route 13 to Shaker Museum Road.)
Heading back on Route 295 in Chatham, turn right at the light on to Route 203 and continue to Valatie, home of the nation's first Santa Claus Club. Heading out of Valatie, turn left onto Route 9 and enjoy the historic village of Kinderhook. This village is home to the Columbia County Museum and the James Vanderpoel House. Just outside the village limits, on Route 9, is Lindenwald, President Martin Van Buren's retirement home. To return to the parkway, leaving Kinderhook, follow Route 9 to Route 203.
The Palisades Interstate Parkway Rustic Journey to Bear Mountain State Park
About 50 miles north of New York City, Bear Mountain State Park awaits your visit. By taking the scenic, forested Palisades Interstate Parkway, your trip can be as pleasurable as reaching your destination.
Located at the intersection of the Palisades Parkway and Route 9W, Bear Mountain State Park is a marvel of natural beauty. You'll find miles and miles of hiking trails, an inn with all the comforts of home, and, of course, magnificent scenic vistas. It's no wonder the park attracts both avid outdoorspeople and weekend day-trippers.
Bear Mountain welcomes more visitors every year than Yellowstone National Park. It's perfect for families, offering hiking trails, boating and picnicking, as well as a . Zoo and a Trailside Museum
Bear Mountain State Park is open 365 days a year from 8am to dusk. A skating rink is open from late October to March and the pool is open from Memorial Day to Labor Day. The park office can be reached at (914)786-2701.
Built in 1915, the Bear Mountain Inn offers comfortable lodging in a nature-filled setting. There's also lakeside lodges, offering been more rustic accommodations. Overlook Lodge, a modern hotel obscured from sight by the trees but nestled above Hessian Lake, is also available for overnight stays.
Portions of this article and some of the images are taken from the 1997 New York State Scenic Byways Brochure. To receive a copy for yourself, contact any tourist office near you, any of the county tourist offices in NYS, or the travel agent nearest you. Images taken from the NYS State Brochure are copyrighted by their respective owners, (#1 & #4 by Empire State Development, #5 © George Valkai, all others © Hudson Valley Network, Inc.).
1998-2004 by Hudson Valley Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved. Copyright ©
To review HV/Net's Privacy Statement, To review HV/Net's General Liability Statement, Click Here
PO Box 67 Greenwood Lake, NY 10925 845.926.3429 - voice 845.926.5665 - faxHudson Valley Network, Inc.
  www.hvnet.com  