Patch of the Florida Highway Patrol.
Logo of the Florida Highway Patrol.
Badge of the Florida Highway Patrol.
http://www.flhsmv.gov/fhp/
The () is a division of the Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles and the charged with ensuring the safety of the and of the . The Department of Public Safety, created in 1939, was reorganized in 1970 and renamed the Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles.Division of the Florida Highway PatrolFHP Florida law enforcement agency highways roads state
Contents
[] edit Organization
The Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles is a which reports to the and the . The DHSMV is headquartered at the in , the . Electra Theodorides-Bustle is the of DHSMV. David Westberry is deputy executive director. state government agency governor of Florida Florida Cabinet Neil Kirkman Building Tallahassee state capital executive director
The director of the Florida Highway Patrol holds the rank of . The organization has five bureaus colonel
Bureau of Field Operations North and West ( A, B, C, F, and H) troops
Bureau of Field Operations South and East (troops D, E, G, K and L);
Bureau of Special Operations (training and leadership, program planning, and property, and policy, aviation, employee selection, recruitment, , , and ) fleet accreditation background investigation polygraph budget
Bureau of Law Enforcement Support Services (EOC/domestic security, communications, , inspections, Auxiliary and Reserve, technology and communications, , and traffic homicide) lieutenant governor aide-de-camp contraband interdiction
Bureau of Investigations.
The Bureau of Investigations is commanded by a , while the other four bureaus are each commanded by a deputy director, a . Nine field troops are commanded by personnel with the rank of major, which are divided by regions geographically located across the state. A tenth troop handles the operations. major lieutenant colonel Florida Turnpike
Troops are subdivided into 30 district headquarters, each commanded by a . Florida Highway Patrol officers are called (not Highway Patrolman, as in some states). captain State Troopers
The FHP and its are state law enforcement officers (LEOs), and as such are considerated . They have the power to enforce and make . Still, they are not : the stipulates that the chief law enforcement officer of a is that county's . troopers police officers Florida state law arrests state police Florida Constitution Florida county sheriff
The function of the FHP is to the safety of , , and in . Florida has an investigative department, the Florida Department of Law Enforcement, analogous to the , State Roads U.S. Highways Interstate Highways Florida FBI
In addition to the FHP, Florida's highways are patrolled by the Florida Department of Transportation's Office of Motor Carrier Compliance (MCCO), a state law enforcement agency responsible for commercial vehicle laws in the state.
The FHP was created in 1939 with 60 uniformed officers. There have been 41 state troopers killed in the line of duty since its founding: 19 died by gunshot, 17 in , five in , and one in an . The authorized strength of the FHP is 2360: 1813 sworn, 547 non-sworn. automobile crashes aircraft crashes explosion
The consists of 110 volunteer members who have the authority to bear arms and make arrests but receive no compensation. The comprises 500 volunteer members (armed and in uniform) who assist troopers throughout the state but receive no compensation.FHP ReserveFHP Auxiliary
[] edit Special functions
The was created in 1967 to meet the Florida Highway Patrol's need for comprehensive investigation into the circumstances resulting in all traffic-related deaths in Florida. The unit consists of 168 full-time investigators, divided into 23 squads statewide. According to the FHP during the period of July 1, 2000 to June 30, 2001, the Patrol investigated 1,728 fatal traffic crashes.Traffic Homicide Investigations Unit
The includes advanced training of all sworn personnel in drug identification and use detection as well as laws, use of FHP Aircraft for observation of fields during routine flight duties; ; drug interdiction teams; and utilization of scopes to locate concealed compartments.Drug Interdiction Program search and seizure marijuana drig detection canines fiber optic
The ' are 20 felony teams, with 50 specially trained troopers designated as felony officers and canine handlers. Each felony team consists of two troopers and one canine, and is assigned to patrol the Interstate Highway System and other major highways throughout the state in order to interdict drug trafficking. Currently, the interdiction program has 31 dogs, 11 fiber optic scopes, and 22 drug detection devices.Drug Interdiction Teams BUSTER
The pilots flew 3481.8 total flight hours during FY 00/001 (July 2000 to June 2001). Of these total flight hours, 1721.9 were flown over speed check zones producing 30,967 arrests. This is an average of 18.0 arrests per hour. The total cost to operate these aircraft during FY 00/01 was $212,472.14, with an average of $61.02 per hour. The total revenue generated by the aircraft was $3,870,875.00, an average of $125.00 per citation.Florida Highway Patrol Flight Section
The was three acquired by the Florida Highway Patrol from the Department of Management Services, Bureau of Federal Property Assistance in November 1998. The fully functional units were acquired for a total of $1500. These have been re-painted courtesy of the at an average cost of $260.34 per unit, and now display the Florida Highway Patrol colors and seal. The units are strategically placed throughout the state one each in Troop D (, Troop E (), and Troop G () as a means of providing support in the case of high-risk emergency situations.Armored Personnel Carriers armored personnel carriers military surplus V-150 carriers Apalachee Correctional Institution Orlando Miami Jacksonville
A state trooper supervising the cleanup of a traffic accident in Troop C.
The patrol's three are stationed in Jacksonville (Troop G), Orlando (Troop D), and Miami (Troop E). On February 3, 1999, the Jacksonville Transportation Authority leased a 1986 surplus bus to the FHP for $1 a year. This vehicle was painted by the JTA in FHP's color scheme, complete with decals and lettering, and is used as a mobile command center for natural disasters and other emergencies in north Florida. The Patrol was responsible for outfitting the bus interior with appropriate communications and other support systems. The entered into a similar partnership with FHP. Troop E's Mobile Command Center came into service in 1997. The bus was donated by the Broward County Transit Department. The equipment used in the conversion was mostly donated. Bell South donated the wiring and phone system, and South Florida I.M.P.A.C.T. donated the money to purchase the many other items such as computers and printers needed to equip this mobile command center. The total cost was approximately $60,000.00 dollars. In 2000, Troop D's command center was ready to help with special details and emergencies that arise in the central region of the state. The 1990 VanHool Bus was confiscated in the panhandle after it was found to have been used to transport drugs such as pot, heroin and crack. This command post is utilized in coordinating special details such as , , and .Mobile Command Units Broward County Transit Authority Dade County Black College Reunion Bike Week Race Week
are stationed in the and the , with 14 in , 14 in and four in . These non-sworn officer positions are responsible for responding to, and investigating minor crashes where there are no criminal charges involved, and providing assistance to stranded motorists. Community Service Officers are not armed, nor do they have any arrest authority. They wear a distinctive colored uniform, which consists of a white shirt with FHP patches and black trousers.Civilian Community Service Officers Tampa Bay area Orlando area Hillsborough County Pinellas County Orange County
provide rapid assistance to areas of the state affected by hurricanes or other natural disasters, the Patrol has Reaction Force Teams. These teams are deployed to disaster areas. There are eight teams, each consisting of one lieutenant, three sergeants and 21 troopers or corporals for a total of 25.Reaction Force Teams
include 47 motorcycles for traffic enforcement and crash investigations. Ten motorcycles are assigned to Troop C (Tampa) and 11 each are assigned to Dade, , Orange,and counties.Motorcycle Squads Duval Palm Beach
The five (TRT), similar to SWAT, consisting of members specially trained in crowd control, weapons, tactical maneuvers, building searches, service of arrest warrants, and other special techniques.Tactical Response Teams
[] edit Ranks and Insignia
Four Captains (three Captains are regional commanders over the Northern, Central and Southern Regions)
Twenty-seven Lieutenants
Three Corporals
Nine Troopers.
Details: There are 54 sworn and 11 non-sworn personnel assigned to the . These officers conduct investigations on auto theft, driver license theft and fraud, title fraud, odometer fraud, and other criminal activities statewide. During fiscal year 2000/2001, 153 stolen vehicles, valued at $2,414,664, were recovered; 13 vehicles valued at $94,500 were seized; 289 warrants were issued; and 174 arrests for criminal activity were made. The Bureau also conducted 63 professional compliance cases, 954 criminal Investigations, 26 division cases and 19 internal review cases for other divisions within the department.Bureau of Investigations
Public Information/Safety Education:
One Captain (assigned as Chief Recruitment Officer and responsible for coordinating the recruitment program)
Six Regional Recruitment Officers (stationed throughout the state)
Background/Selection:
One Lieutenant (Chief Background Investigator)
One Sergeant (Assistant Chief Background Investigator)
Details: Thirteen full-time background investigators are assigned throughout the state assisted by FHP personnel in their local troop as needed. This section is responsible for all pre-employment testing and screening of all applicants for the positions of state trooper and community service officer. This screening consists of pre-employment written testing, physical abilities testing, polygraph, eye examination, physical examination, psychological screening, background investigation and drug screening. This section is also charged with the responsibility of handling requests for assistance from other law enforcement agencies throughout the country in conducting background investigations on applicants with their agency.
Inspections:
One Chief (incl. a staff assistant)
Three Inspectors (with rank of Captain)
One Captain and one Lieutenant (responsible for the Grants, Accreditation, and Policy (GAP) Section)
Details: The Office of Inspections, established in 1995, is responsible to the Director and represents his office while conducting staff inspections throughout the Patrol. GAP is responsible for the Division's Policy development and management, is the Accreditation Manager for the Florida (CFA) and National (CALEA) Accreditation programs and manages the Division's financial grant acquisitions. Additionally, a total of seventeen Inspectors-in-Place (IIP) representing all ten Troops and GHQ, formally trained, assist the permanent Inspectors on a need basis during the staff inspection of field and GHQ units.
Florida Highway Patrol Auxiliary
The FHP currently has about 500 volunteer . They are state-certified to augment regular trooper duties. They also provide security to public events, can be called upon for assistance in times of emergency or natural disaster, and take part in most FHP functions. auxiliary troopers
[] edit History
On November 23, 1931, at the request of the Chairman of the State Road Department ( Cary D. Landis) to Governor Doyle E. Carlton, ruled it shall be the duty of the State Road Department to maintain the state roads and enforce the laws enacted to preserve its physical structure. The road department hired 12 weight inspectors who were placed under the supervision of the division engineers because of the ruling. This was the beginning of state law enforcement in Florida. Florida Attorney General
In January 1934, a Division of Traffic Enforcement was created as a result of an Attorney General's opinion indicating the division could enforce the motor vehicles laws. As a result, E. A. Shurman was appointed Traffic Inspector. The division was given a distinctive military style uniform, forest green in color.
In July 1936, Chairman C. B. Treadway appointed Army Major H. Neil Kirkman, Chief of the State Road Department's Traffic Division due to his experience in the Armed Forces associated with traffic and his background in engineering. Army Major Kirkman was the engineer supervising the construction of the over the . Palatka Memorial Bridge St. Johns River
When was elected Governor in 1937, as an economic move, he abolished the traffic enforcement division of the State Road Department even though it performed valuable service to the citizens of Florida during the years of service. Fred P. Cone
The and the strongly supported the idea of establishing a highway patrol to serve the needs of the motoring public. was the attorney for the State Road Department and his supervisor was , Governor Cone's Chairman of the State Road Department. American Legion Jaycees Richard (Dick) W. Ervin Arthur B. Hale
In 1939, the created the State Department of Public Safety with two divisions; the Florida Highway Patrol and the Division of State Motor Vehicle Drivers Licenses, under the control of Governor Fred P. Cone and Chairman of the State Road Department, Arthur B. Hale. Florida Legislature
The legislation authorized 60 officers to patrol the public highways and to enforce all State laws in effect, or hereinafter enacted, regulating and governing traffic, travel and public safety upon the public highways, and providing penalties for violations thereof, including the operation, regulation and licensing of motor vehicles and drivers thereof, and other vehicles thereon, with full police power to bear arms and to arrest persons violating said laws. The beginning salary was $1,500 per year for a highway patrolmen and each year thereafter the salary would be increased $120 a year until a maximum of $2,000 a year was reached.
Funds for the operation of the Department were to come from the sale of . driver licenses
[] edit Director of the Department of Public Safety
In September 1939, was appointed Director of the Department of Public Safety by Governor Fred Cone and the Chairman of the State Road Department. W. F. Reid
On October 1, 1939, H. Neil Kirkman was appointed as the first of the Florida Highway Patrol. Colonel Kirkman was originally from Greensboro, North Carolina but considered Palatka, Florida his home. He entered the United States Army as a Private in 1917 and was discharged as a First Lieutenant. He was a charter member of the American Legion and served as State Commander of the American Legion during 1922 - 1923. He worked in the construction business for many years, particularly in building bridges such as the Memorial Bridge at Palatka and the . Colonel Kirkman laid the groundwork for what has become the motto of the Florida Highway Patrol: ", , ". Commander Clearwater Causeway Bridge Service Courtesy Protection
[] edit The First Uniform
In 1939, the uniform color for the Florida Highway Patrol was . The forest green had orange piping around the and shirt pockets with silver buttons carrying the . There was an orange and blue shoulder patch on the left shoulder, with silver collar ornaments - FHP on the left lapel and a wheel with wings attached to each side on the right lapel signifying traffic. There was a badge, chain and whistle. The shirt was forest green with orange piping around the epaulets and shirt pockets. Trousers were forest green with 1-1/2" black stripe. Shoes were black. In addition, each trooper was issued two pair of with 1-1/2" black stripe and a pair of black boots for winter dress. forest green whipcord blouse epaulets State seal riding britches
The collar design is a wing and wheel similar to the insignia that appears on the cars today. The original insignias had a broken spoke in the wheel which is the origin of the . ornament Ohio State Highway Patrol Broken Spoke Club
A black , 3" wide, with handcuff case, cartridge clip, and a swivel or swing holster carrying a .38 caliber revolver on the right side, with a shoulder strap to support the revolver and other equipment, completed the body uniform. Sam Browne belt Colt
The first , or "Campaign", hats purchased for the Patrol in 1939, were $12.50 each. The hat, was the Stetson 3X , with a 1-1/2" orange hat band and a thin, 32" long, tan leather head strap to hold the hat in place. Before the turn of the century the Stetson 3X Beaver, as its name implies, was made from genuine beaver pelt; however, it is not known what type of fur, if any, our original Stetsons were made from. beige Stetson Beaver
The uniform of the FHP and its ornaments originated with the military. The Patrol's Stetson hat had first appeared during the civil war, was beige in color, rounded on top instead of creased down the middle, and was worn by the officers of the . also wore the same hat but gray in color. Union Forces Confederate Forces
[] edit First Training School
In November, 1939, the first training school was held in , with 40 recruits. The school was directed by Captain of the Ohio Highway Patrol, a personal friend of Colonel Kirkman. Thirty-two recruits graduated and became troopers. Twenty troopers were issued specially equipped motor vehicles and twelve were assigned Model 84, motorcycles. Bradenton, Florida George Mingle Ford Harley-Davidson
On December 12, 1939, "Fourteen Special Autos" arrived in Bradenton for patrol use. The black and cream, two-door Ford Coaches were equipped with sirens and windshields. bulletproof
At this time the Patrol had no radio communication. Troopers would make regular stops at service stations or grocery stores along their routes to call in for assignments, reports of wrecks, and messages.
By the end of 1940, the first full year of operation, the Florida Highway Patrol had 59 officers. The State was divided into three divisions: Northern, Central and Southern. The commanding officer of each division was a Lieutenant. Since there were no district offices, all the records were kept in Tallahassee and each trooper was responsible for mailing his daily reports to Tallahassee.
The first year of activity included: 154,829 hours of patrol time, 1,000 accidents investigated, 29,860 hours at the station, 127 motorists killed, 1,938,564 miles (3,119,816 km) patrolled, 1,132 persons injured and 4,836 motorists arrested.
The 1941 Legislature increased the authorized strength of the Patrol to 190 officers and the pay increased to $150 per month. In the fall, the State Road Department supplied the Division Commanders an office in their district; the Northern District was , the Central District was and the Southern District was . Lake City Bartow Ft. Lauderdale
In 1948, Florida received national recognition for its driver license program from the . National Safety Council
[] edit The Patrol's Uniform
During Director Gilliam's administration, was in progress and textile mills were using all green wool for military uniforms. Mr. Gilliam selected the army officers' pink material for the uniform trousers and . In 1943, the Patrol's uniform blouse was olive drab whipcord with silver buttons bearing the state seal, a patch on the left shoulder (the orange emblem with the word "Florida" spelled out), silver collar ornament "F.H.P." on the left lapel and the "Winged Wheel" ornament on the right, signifying traffic. A badge, chain, whistle, army pink trousers with a 1-inch (25 mm) black stripe from waist to hem, black riding britches, and one pair of black plain-toed riding boots completed the uniform. Instructions were to wear riding britches and boots on each Friday, Saturday and Sunday until the forest green uniforms were phased out. Also, part of the uniform was the graphite blue Stetson hat, Sam Browne 3" gun belt, plus handcuff and cartridge cases. World War II britches
[] edit Radio Communication System
The Florida Highway Patrol radio communications system began operating in 1943. Mr. Earl Burchard installed the communication system a (). Beginning in Bartow, headquarters for the Central Division. Motorola
By the end of 1944, there were 13 stations statewide in operation with mobile units in all the patrol cars. Monitoring services with the larger police departments were provided. Communication was established with Georgia and Alabama by placing receivers in stations along the borders, which proved very beneficial for all three states.
[] edit War and the Patrol
When World War II erupted in Europe, many troopers enlisted. Other troopers were called up for defense work. Because of the war, it was hard to get and keep patrol officers. The Patrol's sworn officers were down to 100 and were kept busy escorting military convoys, including gasoline tankers filled with fuel for military installations, and patrolling Florida's 1,197 statute miles of coastline looking for illegal aliens trying to slip ashore. The Patrol, working closely with the Army's and the Marine Corps' military police and the Navy's shore patrol, was spread thin during these war years.
In April 1942, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, aided by the Florida Highway Patrol, launched a series of raids on Florida's east coast. They entered 67 homes of German and Italian nationals, seized guns, ammunition, dynamite, caps, fuses, and radio receivers. Some of the persons captured were classified by the FBI as dangerous. Throughout the war, patrolmen aided in the search and apprehension of escaped prisoners of war.
[] edit Post war
In the spring of 1951, The Patrol's use of a single shoulder patch on the right shoulder was adopted by every Highway Patrol and State Police organization in the United States. The patch appeared in a magazine published by the Florida Peace Officers Association and soon all of Florida's law enforcement agencies adopted the idea.
In late 1952, the Patrol realigned the divisions. Boundaries were changed and divisions became Troops and were designated as A, B, C, D, E and Headquarters Troop.
In the beginning, while on probation, all members were classified as Patrolmen. When they completed their probation, they were classified as Patrol Officers. That changed in 1952, when the new classification for members on the Patrol was Trooper.
[] edit Teletype Network
In 1953, a statewide private teletype network was installed by the Patrol, which consisted of two circuits with seven machines on each circuit, providing fourteen terminals throughout the State. This network permitted the sending and receiving of messages between the troops and general headquarters.
The Florida Highway Patrol Auxiliary (FHPA) was formed in 1955 in cooperation with the Florida American Legion. An Act authorizing the Auxiliary was approved on May 14, 1957.
In 1962, the FHP initiated the use of aircraft for traffic law enforcement with two aircraft. Piper
In 1964, civil rights demonstrations began in St. Augustine. The Patrol was sent by the Governor to assist local law enforcement. Mobs were meeting in open conflict and shots were being fired into homes and automobiles. During 15 days of rioting, 306 persons were arrested and a large number of weapons were confiscated.
On July 1, 1965, Florida became one of the first states to use blue emergency lights on its official patrol cars. The use of blue lights was restricted to the Florida Highway Patrol and other police vehicles.
Florida's voters revised the Florida Constitution in the November election and governmental reorganization took place on July 1, 1969. Florida had 125 state agencies. At the end of reorganization, Florida had 25. Many agencies were merged, including the Department of Motor Vehicles and the Department of Public Safety which formed the Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles. The new department consisted of four divisions; Florida Highway Patrol, Driver License, Motor Vehicles and Administrative Services.
On July 1, 1971, Joe Willie DeCoursey was the first of the Florida Highway Patrol. He reported to the FHP Training Academy on July 4, 1971. African-American
In 1972, a special task force of 225 troopers was trained and equipped for crowd control and sent to Miami Beach for both the Republican and Democratic National Conventions. State forces arrested approximately 1,000 demonstrators and during the last day of the convention activity, approximately 25 FHP personnel required medical attention.
Patricia Phillips was the first female trooper hired by FHP. She started on October 17, 1977.
An FHP B4C Camaro.
In 1983, the Patrol purchased its first Patrol Cars. Patrol cars of the past were as fast but did not have the high speed handling capabilities of the Mustang. The vehicle responded well to high speed and low speed curves. In 2002 the Patrol purchased 200 patrol cars with new low profile , each trooper issued the high performance patrol car must complete a five-hour familiarization class on the handling, braking and acceleration of the 310 horsepower (230 kW) vehicle. Ford Mustang Chevrolet Camaro Whelen light bars
In 1998, Florida ranks fourth in population with an estimated 14,720,385 people. An influx of approximately 450 people per day or 160,200 people per year migrates to Florida according to the 's report on sustaining Florida's resources. University of Florida
In 2001, the FHP was heavily criticized by a article ("The Lost Patrol") that depicted the agency as understaffed and poorly managed. The report has led to changes at the agency. St. Petersburg Times
In 2006, the decision was made to transition from the trademark blue and white light bars to red and blue LED lightbars in order to improve both day and night visibility.
[] edit Aggressive Driving Enforcement
In response to the growing problem of "Aggressive Driving", the Florida Highway Patrol launched a selective traffic enforcement campaign in South Florida called "Eye on 95". The program was piloted in Dade (Miami) and Broward (Ft. Lauderdale) counties using two confiscated equipped with grant-funded in-car video equipment, radar, laser, and other speed measuring devices. The Jeeps are designated as observation vehicles, and work with second vehicles that are standard issue marked or unmarked Florida Highway Patrol cars. These vehicles are designated as the enforcement vehicles, and are utilized to overtake the violator upon receiving information from the observation vehicle. The enforcement vehicle conducts the traffic stop of the violator and takes enforcement action for the team. As a result of this successful pilot project, similar aggressive driving enforcement programs have been developed in all other areas of the state. Jeep Grand Cherokees