Jan 5, 2009
Dog owners who know the symptoms to watch for can aid in early diagnosis of tumors and cancer in dogs. Prognosis is good with early treatment.
Dogs can get cancer just as humans can. In fact, cancer affects one out of three dogs. Canine cancer risk increases with age and accounts for almost half of the deaths in dogs over ten years of age.
What is Cancer?
Cancer is a group of abnormal cells that invade and destroy surrounding tissue. Some types of malignancy grow more quickly than others. Cancer can also spread through the circulatory or lymph system to other areas in a process called metastasis.
Common Cancers in Dogs
s a malignant cancer that involves the lymphoid system, an important part of the body’s immune system. The most common form is the multicentric form that can cause enlarged lymph nodes, lethargy, and a weak appetite.Lymphoma i
occur in the breast tissue and are more common in unspayed, older female dogs. They are the most common type of tumor found in .Mammary gland tumors unspayed dogs
are fairly common. Vomiting, diarrhea, weight loss, and abdominal enlargement can be signs of this type of cancer.Abdominal tumors
are the second most common tumor in male dogs who are not neutered. Of course neutering completely eliminates this risk.Testicular tumors
are common and should always be examined by a veterinarian.Skin tumors
, or osteosarcoma, develops deep within the bone and grows outward, causing pain and limping.Bone cancer
Cancer signs will vary depending on the type and where it is located. Being alert and responding to these warning signs can save the dog’s life. No dog owner wants to get the news that his beloved pet has cancer but the sooner a diagnosis is made, the sooner treatment can begin. If treated in early stages, many cancers can be cured with surgery, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, photodynamic therapy, immunotherapy, or a combination of these.
Warning Signs of Cancer in Dogs
A lump, especially one that grows
A lump that feels attached to the tissue beneath the skin
A firm mass, especially one that grows or changes
A pigmented mass
A sore that does not heal
Lack of appetite