The is responsible for managing the . is a significant and power in Latin America and a key player on the world stage. Brazil's reflects its role as an and is designed to help protect the country's , , , and . Ministry of External Relations foreign relations of Brazil Brazil political economic [1] foreign policy emerging world power national interests national security ideological goals economic prosperity
Between and 1990, both and governments sought to expand Brazil's influence in the world by pursuing a state-led industrial policy and an independent . Brazilian foreign policy has recently aimed to strengthen ties with other countries, engage in multilateral diplomacy through the and the , and act at times as a countervailing force to political and economic influence in Latin America. World War II democratic military foreign policy South American United Nations Organization of American States U.S.
Contents
Prime Minister of India Manmohan Singh
Brazil's foreign policy is a by-product of the country's unique position as a in , a leader among , and an emerging . Brazilian foreign policy has generally been based on the principles of , peaceful dispute settlement, and non-intervention in the affairs of other countries. Brazil engages in multilateral through the Organization of American States and the United Nations, and has increased ties with developing countries in and . Brazil is currently commanding a multinational U.N. stabilization force in Haiti, the . Instead of pursuing unilateral prerogatives, Brazilian foreign policy has tended to emphasize regional integration, first through the and now the . regional power Latin America developing countries world power [2] multilateralism [3] diplomacy Africa Asia MINUSTAH Southern Cone Common Market (Mercosul) Union of South American Nations
Brazil's political, business, and military ventures are complemented by the country's . In Brazil, the continues to dominate trade policy, causing the country's commercial interests to be (at times) subsumed by a larger foreign policy goal, namely, enhancing Brazil's influence in Latin America and the world. For example, while concluding meaningful trade agreements with (such as the and the ) would probably be beneficial to Brazil's long-term economic self-interest, the Brazilian government has instead prioritized its leadership role within Mercosur and expanded trade ties with countries in Africa, Asia and the . trade policy Ministry of Foreign Relations [4] developed countries United States European Union Middle East
[] edit Diplomatic relations
Brazilian diplomatic missions overseas
Brazil has a large global network of , and maintains with every United Nations member, with the of: diplomatic missions diplomatic relations exception
  Tuvalu
In addition to that, Brazil does not recognize the (Taiwan), but maintains a special office in . Brazil does not recognize as an independent state and has no plans to do so without an agreement with . Republic of China Taipei Kosovo Serbia [5]
[] edit Relations with the United States
Main article: Brazilian-American relations
Lula da Silva and George W. Bush
Relations between the United States and Brazil are characterized as fairly warm and friendly. The United States has increasingly regarded Brazil as a significant power, especially in its role as a stabilizing force and a skillful interlocutor in Latin America. U.S. officials tend to describe Brazil, like , as a friendly country that shares the U.S. commitment to practices and prudent policies. Chile democratic macroeconomic
Although they share common goals for regional stability, Brazil's independent approach to foreign policy has led to periodic disputes with the United States on trade and political issues, including Brazil's vocal opposition to the . Despite these disagreements, Brazil and the United States have worked closely on a wide range of and regional issues. In addition to trade matters, these issues include counter-narcotics and , energy security, human rights protection, environmental issues and . Brazilian and U.S. officials recently signed an agreement on and technology development. war in Iraq bilateral terrorism HIV/AIDS ethanol
[] edit United Nations politics
Main article: Brazil and the United Nations
Brazil is a charter member of the and participates in many of its specialized agencies. It has contributed troops to UN peacekeeping efforts in the , the former , , , , and more recently and . Brazil has been a member of the nine times, most recently 2004-2005. United Nations Middle East Belgian Congo Cyprus Mozambique Angola East Timor Haiti UN Security Council
Brazil is currently seeking a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council. It is a member of the , an organization of Brazil, , , and , all nations who are currently seeking permanent representation. According to their plan the would be expanded beyond the current fifteen members to include twenty-five members. This would be the first time that permanent status has been extended to a nation and supporters of the G4 plan suggest that this will lead to greater representation of developing nations rather than the current major participants. G4 Germany Japan India UN Security Council South American
[] edit International issues
Two short sections of the border with are in dispute - the Arroio Invernada area of the , and the at the confluence of the Quara River and the . Uruguay Quara River Brazilian Island Uruguay River [6]
declared in 1986 the sector between 28 W to 53 W () as its Zone of Interest. It overlaps Brazil Brazilian Antarctica Ant rtica Brasileira Argentine and British claims [7]
[] edit Foreign aid
Brazil provides to various countries in Africa and through the (: ; : ), in addition to offering scientific, economical, and technical support to programs in various countries. foreign aid Latin America Brazilian Agency of Cooperation Abbreviation ABC Portuguese Ag ncia Brasileira de Coopera o
[] edit Participation in international organizations