15 mg/day
iron (p. S4):
The body requires iron (Fe) for the synthesis of the oxygen transport proteins haemoglobin and myoglobin, and for the formation of haem enzymes, and other Fe-containing enzymes, which participate in electron transfer and oxidation-reduction reactions...
The body regulates iron homeostasis by controlling absorption and not by modifying excretion as with most other metals; absorption is increased during deficiency and decreased when erythropoeisis [red blood cell production] is depressed. The body has a limited capacity to excrete Fe and that in excess of needs is stored...
All non-haem food Fe is assumed to enter a common Fe pool in the gut lumen (Cook from where absorption is strongly influenced by the presence of other food components. [inhibitors]...
et al, 1972),
As little or no Fe is excreted, absorption is synonymous with bioavailability.
p. 198].
et al.
The NRC reports [1989] that the absorption of non-heme iron may vary by a factor as high as ten with the presence/absence of inhibitors or enhancers of iron absorption.
Factors that inhibit iron absorption
--myoinostol hexaphosphate--is common in grains and legumes, and sharply reduces the bioavailability of iron. The phytate content of foods is reduced, but not eliminated by milling and some common processing techniques. Of interest to raw vegans, Hurrell [1997, notes:Phytates/phytic acid
p. S5]
Some traditional processes such as fermentation, germination, and even soaking can activate phytases in cereal grains or flours, which then degrade phytic acid and improve Fe absorption (Sandberg and Svanberg, 1991).
--including phenolic acids, tannins, flavonoids. Common in tea, coffee, chocolate, wine.Polyphenols
--inhibits iron absorption when given in inorganic (supplement) form, or in dairy. The effect of Ca depends on the composition of the meal, and the level of Ca it contains. Mixed or complex meals (i.e., meals of several food items) generally do not inhibit Fe absorption. In contrast, Ca may inhibit Fe absorption in mono-meals (the practice of mono-eating is recommended by some raw vegans) depending on the food eaten.Calcium (Ca)
Freeland-Graves [1988], citing Bindra [1986], reports that dietary fiber might inhibit Fe absorption. Hurrell [1997], citing Rosssander [1992], reports that fiber has little effect on Fe absorption. It appears that the effect of fiber on Fe absorption has not been resolved yet.Fiber.
et al.
et al.
Proteins can inhibit or enhance iron absorption depending on the type of protein. Proteins are converted into peptides in digestion, and these can bind Fe. Legume proteins (including soy), milk casein, and egg albumin, canProtein.
bind iron.
Nuts can sharply inhibit the absorption of iron in a meal; the inhibition can be overcome, however, by the addition of to the meal (Craig [1994]).Nuts.
vitamin C
Factors that enhance iron absorption
This brings us back to protein again. In contrast to plant protein, the presence of animal muscle (meat) sharply increases the absorption of Fe. This may be due to the level of cysteine-based proteinsMuscle tissue.
in meat.
A good absorption enhancer in supplement form and also in the form of fruits and vegetables. Hurrell [1997], citing Hallberg [1989], reports that at sufficiently high concentrations, the iron enhancement effect of ascorbic acid can overcome the inhibiting effect of phytic acid in grains. Craig [1994] reports that other organic acids (citric, malic, tartaric, and lactic) can also enhance iron absorption.Ascorbic acid (vitamin C) and other organic acids.
et al.
Iron deficiency in veg*ns
p. 861]
Dwyer et al (28) reported mild Fe deficiency in 25% of preschool vegetarian children despite normal intakes of Fe. In adult lacto-ovo-vegetarians, Bindra and Gibson (30) also found a high prevalence of Fe deficiency with normal dietary Fe intakes. In new vegans (32) low Fe stores as measured by serum ferritin were found in 27% of the females, and 10% had values Low serum ferritin has also been observed in lacto-ovo-vegetarian
<10 mcg/L.
students (33).
Craig [1994] concludes that a balanced veg*n diet can supply adequate iron. However, Craig suggests a diet that includes grains, nuts, and seeds, as well as fresh fruits and vegetables. The idea is that the vitamin C in the fresh fruits and vegetables will counteract the iron inhibitors in the grains and seeds, hence make the iron (in the grains and seeds) available for absorption. From an evolutionary perspective, such a diet is of limited relevance: grains are available in quantity only via agriculture, and nuts and seeds were available only seasonally prior to the development of containers and food storage techniques.
From iron deficiency to iron overload: the distribution of hereditary hemochromatosis
(Acknowledgment: This topic was introduced to me via a posting made by Gary Ditta to the Paleolithic Diet email list, paleodiet@maelstrom.stjohns.edu,
on 4/30/98.)
Hereditary hemochromatosis (HH) is a genetic disease, a type of "iron overload," which is "the most common inherited metabolic disease among the white [European descent] population worldwide" (from Bonkovsky [1996], abstract). HH is an "iron overload" disease in which the body absorbs excess iron and stores it in the major organs (heart, pancreas, liver, etc.). This can eventually cause cirrhosis of the liver, diabetes mellitus, and cardiac complications [Niederau 1994]. HH is chronic and progressive, and is treated by phlebotomy--blood-letting.Introduction and incidence.
et al.
et al.
The estimated incidence of HH varies from study to study. Bonkovsky [1996] and Feder [1996] report a gene frequency of 10%. Citing a variety of studies, Niederau [1994] report a gene frequency of 2.3-10.7%, a frequency of heterozygotes (those with just one copy of the gene) of 4.3-19.1%, and a frequency of homozygotes (those having two copies of the gene) of 0.074-1.16%. The full disease occurs only in affected homozygotes, though a small number of heterozygotes may exhibit abnormal iron metabolism.
et al.
et al.
Hemochromatosis and diet: a hypothesis
For 99% of the time since the inception of the species, humans have lived as hunter-gatherers, eating a diet that includes animal foods that are rich in easily absorbed iron. Under such circumstances, the gene responsible for HH would not survive for long, as the hunter-gatherer diet is rich in animal foods and heme iron, and the HH gene (genetic mutation) would sharply reduce survival of those unlucky enough to
have it.
In the most recent 1% of our history, humans developed agriculture, stopped being hunter-gatherers, and switched from a diet rich in easily absorbed iron to a diet based on grains--low in bioavailable iron and high in phytates (iron inhibitors). Under the new circumstances, a genetic mutation that increases iron absorption (e.g., the gene associated with HH), would occur in an environment where it actually enhances survival. Under those circumstances, such a gene would both survive and spread.
Modern times arrive, and bring large-scale agriculture and agricultural technology, industrialization, and greatly increased wealth. Over a very short period of time, the meat/animal food content of the diet increases substantially from what it was 100 years ago (if less than what it was prior to the development of agriculture). However, those with the HH gene who eat a diet rich in animal foods are now at increased risk of disease, because their bodies absorb "too much" iron from the recent dietary change that allows them to eat far more meat than their grandparents could afford. That is, their bodies have partially adapted (via the HH gene) to a diet in which iron is of very low bioavailability.
Hemochromatosis: supplementary notes
Iron overload diseases in Africa.
et al.
Heme iron receptors in the human intestine
Heme and non-heme iron receptors.
specific