About the Brevard Drop-In Center:
The Brevard Drop-In Center first opened its doors on November 30th, 2006.
The intense and continual work of many organizations helped in forming the Drop-in Center: Brevard County Board of Commissioners, Brevard County Department of Housing and Human Services, the Brevard County Community Mental Health Solutions Commission, the Drop-in Center Committee from that Commission, both National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI) groups in the county, and many others.
The Grand Opening was on February 20th, 2007, which many community leaders from agencies that help people with mental illnesses attended. These community leaders, social service agencies, and mental health providers refer people to the Brevard Drop-In Center.
The Brevard Drop-In Center is an organization for people 18 years of age and over who have a psychiatric (mental illness) and want to belong. No membership dues are paid. This is not a program. The Drop-In Center is not run by the county mental health center or any other professional staff. The Drop-in Center is run by and for people with mental illnesses.
The Drop-in Center concept is a national model and has existed since the 1960's. They are for people who want to get ouf of the house, relax, meet people with similar problems, get support and information, maybe do some laundry and play some computer games, have some fun and some coffee, soda and a snack, all without spending any money. The Drop-in Center is funded by a grant from the Florida Department of Children and Family Services (DCF), and by private donations. We also received a three-year grant from Mental Health America, formerly the National Mental Health Association. This year we received several generous private donations and a welcome and generous donation from the Wal-Mart Foundation through the Neighborhood Wal-Mart at 3550 Babcock Street in Melbourne. We are currently seeking grants and additional corporate donations.
Following is a list of the goods and services available at the Brevard Drop-In Center, all at no cost:
A place to relax