- - Mon, May. 25th MiataWorld IIGaylord Texan Resort & Convention Center
News
  Written by Jerret Jan
Thursday, 10 April 2008
In order to satisfy our craving to carve corners around cones and try out the venue for a 2008 Solo Divisional event, several local DFW drivers made the trip to College Station to participate in a autocross event held by the Texas A&M Sports Car Club. Many of the DFW attendees were there as part of a trip organized on the Metroplex Miata Enthusiast () forum, but others outside of the Miata group attended as well. In all, we had 11 attendees, with Jeff Hanchey out of Waco counting as the half. The drive from DFW to College Station in the morning is always the easiest part, as there is no traffic when many of us leave our residences at 4:30 AM. As in the past, we all met for breakfast at the luxurious Golden Arches restaurant in Hearne, Texas, and then on to the site with full (of not satisfied) tummies. The site is part of the Texas A&M Riverside Campus, which was originally home to Bryan Army Airfield. The racing occurs on a section of old runway. I have not been to Walnut Ridge in Arkansas, but I am told that the surface is very similar. It is a decent surface, much better than Mineral Wells, but also smaller than Mineral Wells. As expected, the racing was fun and talk in the grid always regarded time comparisons and surly grid workers. In the end, DFW drivers took home first place trophies in five different classes. Cody Case took home the AS trophy, with Robert Jones in his new Honda S2000 CR just behind him. Robert was running on the street tires that came with the Honda, while Cody was running R-comps. Kenny Baker not only took home a win in the excuse-free BS class, but he also set the fastest time of the day for both raw times and PAX times. Good job, Kenny! Thomas he StigHiromoto and Joseph Kan (sharing a car with Thomas) followed up Kenny. As with AS, Kenny was on R-comps while Thomas and Joseph raced on street tires. Had Thomas been alerted to Kenny attendance prior to the event, then it would have been an all out war for FTD and a BS win. The shots would have been heard in DFW. Mick unshineHarrison won CS over Bad Brad Hudson and Jeff Hanchey. Mick was on R-comps versus street tires for Brad and Jeff. Brad will be someone to watch for in the local tire class this season. Jerrett Jan won ES on his first outing with R-comps. He was followed by Lorin Stolz (street tires) and Doug Covington. As expected, local favorite Lisa Savage took honors in BSPL in her brown Corvette. The drive home was marred by the typical extra traffic on Highway 6 and Interstate 35, but the highlight was the stop for dinner. Eight of us stopped off at the always yummy Elite Circle Grill in beautiful Waco, Texas for a great meal. Chicken Fried Steak and Chicken Fried Chicken seemed to dominate out selections, with only Doug Covington checking his intake in his effort to take home the prize in the Ditch the Spare Contest. As with previous trips to College Station and Oklahoma City, it was another good time. It is always hard to get up at 3:30 AM on Sunday morning in order to drive several hours for five minutes of racing, but it is always worth it in the end. Someone asked why I drive that far to race so little, and I explained that it is more than just the racing. We always have a good time with each other and end up with memories and stories that provide never-ending fodder for the future. I look forward to future trips and I hope more of our local racers will join us. www.dfwmiata.com