Patch of the California Highway Patrol.
CHP Door Shield
7,085 (as of 2004) [1]
Civilians
2,820 (as of 2004) [1]
Agency executive
Footnotes
Division of the country, over which the agency has usual operational jurisdiction. Divisional agency:
The (CHP) is a that acts as the force of . It was originally created in 1929 as a agency to ensure in but assumed greater responsibility with the passage of time. It now also provides services while protecting state buildings and facilities, conducts criminal investigations, and assists local law enforcement agencies. It is the largest state police agency in the with about 9,900 employees, of whom 6,800 are sworn officers, according to data.California Highway Patrol state agency state police California highway patrol road safety California security police United States FBI [3]
Contents
17 External links
[] edit Highway Patrol duties
The agency has specific jurisdiction over all California state routes, U.S. Highways, Interstate highways freeways in the state and all public roads in unincorporated parts of a county. Local or the local 's department having a contract with an incorporated city have responsibility to investigate and enforce traffic laws in incorporated cities. However, the CHP can still enforce traffic laws on any public road anywhere in the state regardless if it is in an incorporated or unincorporated city. police sheriff
Its officers enforce the California Vehicle Code (including laws against ), pursue fugitives spotted on the highways, and attend to all significant obstructions and accidents within their jurisdiction. They patrol in various vehicles including , , , airplanes, and helicopters which include , and . The CHP has a fleet of 73 , which are used for commercial vehicle patrols. speeding Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptors Chevrolet Camaros BMW R1150RT-P motorcycles Cessna 206 Bell OH-58As Bell 206L-IVs Eurocopter AS-350B-3s Chevrolet Camaros
CHP officers are responsible for investigating and disposing of , debris, and other impediments to the free flow of traffic. They are often the first government officials at the scene of an accident (or obstruction), and in turn summon , drivers or personnel. The CHP files traffic collision reports for state highways and within unincorporated areas. car accidents dead animals paramedics tow truck Caltrans
[] edit Special responsibilities
The CHP also publishes data on traffic accidents in California from a database called SWITRS (). Statewide Integrated Traffic Records System
After the the CHP became responsible for securing and patrolling a number of potential terrorist targets in the State of California. These sites include the , nuclear power plants, government buildings, and key sites. They also maintain a team on 24 hour stand-by to respond to any terrorist activity. September 11, 2001 attacks Bay Bridge infrastructure SWAT
In September 2005 the CHP sent resources to the Gulf Coast to assist in the aftermath of . Before the arrived, the CHP had four patrol helicopters over New Orleans, more than forty vehicles on the ground, and more than 200 officers and other staff, including a SWAT team, deployed in New Orleans. Hurricane Katrina United States National Guard [] citation needed
CHP headquarters in Sacramento
One of the California Highway Patrol's additional responsibilities includes a governor protection detail.
The CHP is led by the Commissioner, who is appointed by the Governor of California. The Deputy Commissioner is also appointed by the Governor and the Assistant Commissioners are appointed by the Commissioner.
In 2008 Governor appointed Joe Farrow as CHP Commissioner, succeeding Mike Brown, who resigned amidst pressure from the California legislature that he was an ineffective leader. Arnold Schwarzenegger [4]
Secretary of the Business, Transportation & Housing Agency - Dale E. Bonner
Commissioner of the Highway Patrol - Joseph A Farrow
Deputy Commissioner of the Highway Patrol -
Office of Internal Affairs
Office of the Special Representative
Office of Media Relations
Assistant Commissioner, Field Operations - Arthur Anderson
Northern Division
State Terrorism Threat Assessment Center
Assistant Commissioner, Staff Operations - K.P. Green
Administrative Services Division
Assistant Commissioner, Leadership Development & Communications
Office of Media Relations
Office of Community Outreach & Recruitment
Office of the Academy
[] edit Traditions
A CHP Camaro painted in traditional black and white colors
CHP uniforms are traditionally khaki-colored with and blue and gold trouser stripe. The dress uniform includes a green jacket and bright blue tie (motorcycle officers wear a bow tie), and cold weather and utility uniforms are dark blue or . campaign hat BDU's coveralls
Standard patrol vehicles are required by state law to be painted , with a replica of the CHP badge on the sides and the words HIGHWAY PATROL on the back and front fenders. Special low profile joined the CHP fleet in 2002. Painted white and sporting a thin, flat , rather than the traditional seven-pod Vision unit, these pursuit cars were designated for enforcement of laws, but are also used for general patrol duties. usually black, with white doors and roof Chevrolet Camaros LED light bar Federal Signal trucking
The California Highway Patrol is one of the few organizations to continue to use the older " 1-2000" number. With the falling cost of 800, 888 etc. numbers, most organizations have chosen to switch to one of the newer numbers and discontinue use of the Zenith service which requires operator assistance. toll-free Zenith telephone area code
Like any statewide law enforcement agency, the CHP has developed certain colorful traditions such as its own system of widely adopted by local agencies. The most important is 11-99 (officer needs emergency assistance or officer down). radio codes
In 1981, a charitable foundation, the , was founded to provide benefits and scholarships to officers and their families. 11-99 Foundation
[] edit Code of Honor
The CHP has a code of honor. It states:
I, a member of the California Highway Patrol, subscribe in word and deed to the following:
To serve the State of California honestly, and conscientiously;
and fulfill my oath as a soldier of the law;
To uphold and maintain the honor and integrity of the California Highway Patrol;
Be loyal to my fellow officers; respect and obey my seniors in rank; and enforce the law without fear, favor, or discrimination;
Assist those in peril or distress, and, if necessary, lay down my life rather than swerve from the path of duty;
My personal conduct shall at all times be above reproach and I will never knowingly commit any act that will in any way bring discredit upon the California Highway Patrol or any member thereof;
To all of this I do solemnly pledge my sacred honor as an Officer of the California Highway Patrol.
[] edit Fallen officers
Since its formation in 1929, 213 CHP Officers have been killed in the line of duty. The three most common causes of line of duty deaths to date are (in order): Automobile/Motorcycle Accidents; Gunfire; Vehicular Assault (i.e., struck by drunk driver, reckless driving or otherwise impaired drivers). 1964 was the deadliest year, with 8 officers dying in the line of duty. [5]
[] edit Mexican Liaison Unit
A CHP Officer making a traffic stop
A CHP unit at the scene of an accident
The CHP has a unit called the Mexico Liaison Unit, which consists of six officers and a sergeant, all of whom are fluent in Spanish. It is part of the Border Division. The purpose of this unit is to work with Mexican authorities to locate and recover stolen US vehicles in Mexico, identify the thieves and ensure their prosecution in or , and to provide assistance to Mexican authorities. The CHP, however, has no in Mexico. California Mexico jurisdiction
Further information: Newhall Massacre
On April 6, 1970, four California Highway Patrol officers were killed in a 4-1/2 minute gun battle in the region of Southern California. The incident is a landmark in CHP history due both to its emotional impact and the procedural and doctrinal reforms made by the CHP in the incident's aftermath. Newhall
The 25th anniversary of this sad day was observed in April, 1995, at the present Newhall Area office, where a brick memorial pays tribute to Officers James Pence (6885), Roger Gore (6547), Walt Frago (6520) and George Alleyn (6290). The memorial once stood at the former Newhall office, but was rebuilt at the new site, about one mile from the scene of the slayings. [6]
The killings occurred in a restaurant parking lot just before midnight. Officers Walt Frago and Roger Gore had been alerted by radio of a vehicle carrying someone who had brandished a weapon. They spotted the car, fell in behind, called for backup, and began the stop procedure. When the subjects' vehicle had come to a halt in the parking lot, the driver was instructed to get out and place his spread hands on the hood. Gore approached him and Frago moved to the passenger side. The right-side door suddenly swung open and the passenger sprung out, firing at Frago, who fell with two shots in his chest. The gunman, later identified as Jack Twinning, then turned and fired once at Gore, who returned fire. In that moment the driver, Bobby Davis, turned and shot Gore twice at close range. Both officers died instantly.
When Officers James Pence and George Alleyn drove in moments later, they could see neither suspects nor downed officers, but immediately came under fire. Pence put out an 11-99 call ("officer needs help") then took cover behind the passenger door. Alleyn grabbed the shotgun, and positioned himself behind the driver-side door. Both officers were mortally wounded in the ensuing exchange, and one subject was hit.
Gary Kness saw the gunfight as he drove along The Old Road and stopped to help. Kness ran toward the gun battle as shots were still being fired.
"I was driving to work as a computer operator when I turned the corner on the Old Road and saw the gunfire, I saw two CHP cars and a red car. I always say my brain said to get out of the way, but my feet ran the wrong way." [7]
Kness tried to drag the mortally wounded Alleyn out of the line of fire. When one of the two assailants began firing at him, Kness grabbed a CHP shotgun lying on the ground and aimed it at one of the gunmen. The shotgun was empty, however. Kness snatched Alleyn's service revolver from the ground, aimed with both hands and fired, hitting gunman Bobby Augusta Davis in the chest. When Davis kept advancing toward him, Kness tried to shoot again, but the CHP pistol was out of bullets.
"I was upset there weren't four or five more rounds in there. After that, I ran and jumped in a ditch. The dumbest thing is, I still had the service revolver in my hand. I was afraid when more police came they'd think I was one of the gunman. So I put it behind me and said, 'They went that way.' " [7]
Suspects Jack Twinning and Bobby Davis escaped, later abandoned their vehicle and then split up. For nine hours, officers blanketed the area searching for the killers. Twinning broke into a house and briefly held a man hostage. Officers used tear gas before storming the house, but Twinning killed himself using the shotgun he had stolen from Frago. Davis was captured, stood trial and convicted on four counts of murder. He was sentenced to death, but in 1972 the California Supreme Court declared the to be cruel and unusual punishment and in 1973, the court modified Davis's sentence to life in prison. death penalty
Of the incident, Ronald Reagan, the Governor of California at the time, said the following words: "If anything worthwhile comes of this tragedy, it should be the realization by every citizen that often the only thing that stands between them and losing everything they hold dear... is the man wearing a badge." [8]
An emotionally charged follow-up investigation followed the incident, but eventually led to a complete revision of procedures during high-risk and felony stops. Firearms procedures have also changed fundamentally due to this incident, and physical methods of arrest have been improved. The police baton and pepper spray have been added to the officer's arsenal, with more in-depth training in their use. In all, though the incident was a great tragedy, the reforms that stemmed from it have made uniformed officers more alert and better prepared for the dangers faced every day. [9]
[] edit Mergers
On , , the , which was a separate agency, was merged into the CHP, thus greatly expanding the agency's mandate. In addition to safety on the state highway system, it is now responsible for the safety of all elected state officials and all people who work in or are utilizing a state building in California, such as the State Capitol Building in . July 12 1995 California State Police Sacramento
It has also been discussed to merge the Law Enforcement Division of the into the . By doing so, this may allow for better protection of California's environment and natural resources. The underfunded DFG Law Enforcement Division has faced low numbers of also known as Conservation Police Officers for the last ten years; a similar idea is already in place in Oregon and Alaska, where the and serve as game wardens under a separate fish and wildlife division within the two departments. California Department of Fish and Game California Highway Patrol [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] Game Wardens Oregon State Police [15] Alaska State Troopers [16]
[] edit Duty Weapons
The current standard issue firearm for CHP officers is the in . Additionally some officers are authorized to carry a . Each CHP patrol car is equipped with a Police 12-gauge shotgun and a A2 in Smith & Wesson Model 4006 TSW .40 S&W taser Remington 870 Colt AR-15 .223
[] edit Vehicles and Patrol Cars
The current patrol vehicle is the . A small number of were developed, at first intended for commercial enforcement, but later distributed to many major offices for general patrol. Many will soon be retired as they approach 200,000 miles. Ford Crown Victoria Police Interceptor 2002 Chevrolet Camaros
Future replacements are being considered for current patrol cars. Though the was considered as a replacement to the existing fleet of vehicles, all models currently purchased are only in use for training and as undercover vehicles. Several vehicles were allocated to public affairs officers and are used for recruiting purposes. An example of these vehicles can be seen at the and other venues. Dodge Charger [17] California State Fair
[] edit Notorious officers
, a former Barstow based, CHP patrolman was convicted on May 10, 1984, in federal court, for the 1982 rape and slaying of Robin Bishop. Following conviction, Gwaltney was subsequently sentenced to 90 years, being eligible for parole after serving at least 30. Gwaltney died in federal custody. George Michael Gwaltney http://cases.justia.com/us-court-of-appeals/F2/790/1378/8638/ [] citation needed
, a former CHP officer, is serving a 25-years-to-life prison sentence for the on-duty strangulation and murder of Cara Knott in December 1986. Knott's skull was smashed and her body discarded over a bridge. Peyer was convicted of first-degree murder in 1988. Although he has maintained innocence since then, Peyer has been consistently denied parole. In 2004 the parole board offered Craig Peyer the chance to prove his alleged innocence by providing a sample to compare against a drop of blood found on Cara's shoe, using . Peyer declined. Craig Peyer [18] DNA modern technology
[] edit Media references
was a fictional television drama show of the 1970s about the CHP, and the CHP also helped out in the 1955 TV show starring . Also the TV series was made into a modern called . A theatrical release motion picture version of the show has been announced, and is tentatively scheduled to release in 2009. Former commissioner, was the host of CHiPs Highway Patrol Broderick Crawford CHiPs telemovie CHiPs '99 [19] Maury Hannigan Real Stories of the Highway Patrol