I want a water efficient bathroom
The following tips will help you to achieve this goal.
Small steps
A tap can discharge up to 18 litres of water per minute. Thats the equivalent of more than a bucket of water if you left the tap going while brushing your teeth for just one minute. Try using a glass of water to rinse and use the tap just when needed.
Turn off the tap when you brush your teeth
A running tap can discharge up to 10 litres of water per minute - thats the equivalent of one whole bucket!
Put a plug in the sink when you wash or shave
Keeping track of your shower time can have a big impact on water use, even a low flow shower head can use about 35 litres of water per 5 minute shower.
Keep track of your shower time; try to shower for 5 minutes or less
Save water and to reduce the amount of water in the cistern.
Save water  put a brick in the toilet cistern and reduce its water capacity
Short showers use less energy and water than baths. You can save even more by fitting a .
Consider taking a shower instead of a bath
can reduce the amount of water used while not reducing the pressure.
If you can, install tap aerators to reduce water flow
Tap aerators
If you dont want to change your shower head, fit a flow restrictor  these reduce water flow while still delivering a satisfying shower. They are available from plumbing suppliers for a few dollars and can significantly reduce the volume of water discharged.
If you can, install a flow restrictor on your shower head
A leaking cistern can waste up to 16,000 litres of water a year. Put a few drops of food colouring in the cistern between flushes to see whether it leaks into the bowl. Normally changing a washer fixes the problem, and you can do this easily yourself.
Fix leaky toilet cisterns and taps in your home
Installing a can reduce water flow by nearly half, from 12 litres or more to seven litres a minute saving water and energy.
If you're changing your showerhead, consider installing a low-flow shower head
and retrofit it with a 6 litre/3 litre dual flush cistern.
If you're replacing your toilet cistern, install one with a dual flush
Adjust your existing toilet
Big steps
When buying a new toilet look for the most water efficient one. A 6 litre/3 litre dual flush is good, a 4.5 litre/3 litre flush is even better. They cost from around $200 upwards.
If you're installing a new toilet, choose a dual flush