 
Career Development
It is never too early to begin thinking about your life beyond UConn and entering the world of work! During your undergraduate career there are many opportunities for you to start networking, gaining valuable experiences and preparing yourself for life after graduation. As an athlete, you have already developed many skills employers find attractive in potential employees. You can and should use the skills you have acquired as a student-athlete to enhance your job search. In addition however, employers are looking for people who can contribute to the overall mission of their organization, and attempt to find potential employees who have the background or desire to contribute in positive and meaningful ways. The can help you gain career related experiences, assist you in and opportunities and aid you by providing information regarding how . Department of Career Services exploring various career fields various majors relate to careers
Career Services also provides students with opportunities to gain valuable work experiences through , , , or . In addition, they provide which help students prepare for job/career fairs, write resumes, learn interviewing techniques and a wide array of other valuable services and experiences. academic internships paid internship opportunities cooperative education summer/part-time job opportunities programs and workshops
Job Seekers
provides graduates and alumni the opportunity to post their resumes and apply online to employment opportunities posted by companies and organizations throughout the United States. allows you to apply for both fulltime and parttime positions, interships and cooperative education experiences. You can update your profile and resume as often as you wish, and keep track of your application history and past interviews. The companies who post job openings on the site are seeking UConn students! Take advantage of this valuable resource and post your resume today! The job database is constantly changing and growing so bookmark the page and refer to it often during your job search! HuskyCareerLink HuskyCareerLink
      