: Categories Proposed language families
The language family was a grouping of languages which was once widely accepted by linguists, but has since been generally rejected. It comprised the (, , , , , , etc., plus perhaps and ) and the (, , , etc.).Ural-Altaic Altaic languages Turkish Mongolian Kazakh Uzbek Tatar Manchu Korean Japanese Uralic languages Hungarian Finnish Estonian
The theory of a Uralo-Altaic group has now been widely disapproved by historical linguists as a misnomer. Even the existence of the Altaic language family has become controversial (see ), although Uralic is somewhat accepted. Most modern linguists argue either that these two families (or more than two, if Altaic is rejected) are unrelated, ascribing any similarities to coincidence or mutual influence resulting in "convergence". Other critics see this as problematic, pointing to strong similarities in their pronouns and other elements — although pronoun borrowing, while rare, is attested. They suggest that they may instead be related through a larger family, either or , within which Uralic and Altaic are no more closely related to each other than to this macrofamily's other members. see:. Altaic languages Nostratic Eurasiatic Uralo-Siberian languages
Both groups follow the principle of , are (stringing suffixes, prefixes or both onto a single root) and lack grammatical gender (see ). However, these typological similarities do not, on their own, constitute evidence of , as they may be a result of or coincidence. These features are consistent with a proto-language or a loose collection of areal influences spanning Proto-Uralic, Proto-Indo-European and Turkic languages. Vowel harmony is found in other, unrelated language groups. Moreover, there is no evidence for noninitial labial vowels in , thus leaving the remaining /a/ and /i/ open for allophony controlled by the initial syllable, creating vowel harmony from scratch. However, the prevalence of the above-noted features among the languages of the proposed Ural-Altaic languages suggests a strong relationshipwhether genetic or notwhose name may still refer to the languages which share these features. vowel harmony agglutinative noun class genetic relationship areal influences Proto-Uralic
This proposed language family has also sometimes been termed . The term derives from the word for places beyond the , .Turanian Persian Oxus Turān