Medial epicondylitis (thrower's elbow, golfer's elbow, little league elbow)
 
What is the cause?
 
Causes of vary. The most common cause is increasing the duration or intensity of an activity or exercise program too quickly. in the knee, foot, and calf are common in athletes who participate frequently in sports that involve running and jumping. in the knees can also occur from biking. Swimming, swinging a golf club, or pitching a ball can cause in the shoulder. Wearing worn-out shoes, poor conditioning, or training mistakes are other possible causes. Body structure problems like having bowlegs, one leg shorter than the other, or flat feet can also cause . may also occur from repeated motion such as typing or using a hammer. Basically, any tendon in the body, stressed beyond its capacity, in the short or long term, can develop tendinitis.tendonitisTendonitisTendonitistendonitistendonitisTendonitis
 
During physical exercise, much stress and force are exerted on the tendon, increasing the risk of injury.
There are internal (intrinsic) or external (extrinsic) factors to getting these tendon/ligament/tissue problems.The intrinsic mechanism starts within the tendon from tissue mechanical properties, direct tendon overload, intrinsic degeneration, or other insult. The extrinsic mechanism is associated with damage to the tendon through compression (impingemnt) against surrounding structures, especially common in the shoulder. Intrinsic conditions include trauma or reactive or degenerative changes starting in the substance of the tendon. The suspected causes of intrinsic degeneration are the blood supply, aging, and tensile overload. Lack of blood supply within the area of greatest impingement is a primary reason that tendinopathy starts. But, increased blood supply or flow or angiogenesis may be associated with symptomatic disease due to mechanical impingement. 
 
Tension overload is another intrinsic injury mechanism that can result in damage to the tendon. In the bursa and joint portions of a tendon, the strain and stress is greater on the bursa side rather than the joint. Certain activities may make joints more subject to tears due to tendon overload because the joint side of the tendon may be closer to its failure strain.
 
Degenerative changes with calcification, fibrovascular proliferation, and microtears are seen in older but not in younger individuals. Age has also been shown to have a great influence on the mechanical properties of tendons. The healing potential of older people is decreased, including their tendons, and would therefore make older people more susceptible to overload injury. Younger tissues heal better and faster. Older age may simply make the tendons more susceptible to damage with compression or tension overload.
 
Tears may be partial-thickness, involving the bursa or joint, or full-thickness. Tears most commonly occur in the region between the bony insertion of the tendon and the nearest muscle junction. The initial degeneration will alter the mechanical environment, and mechanical damage to the tendon due to extrinsic or intrinsic factors will increase, which will in turn alter the mechanical environment, increasing mechanical damage, and the cycle continues, initiating a tear. Bursal, joint and tendon tears are often found at the time of surgical repair and the causes for these tears are unknown. 
 
Several subcategories have been identified: (1) hypoxic degeneration, (2) hyaline degeneration, (3) mucoid or myxoid degeneration, (4) fibrinoid degeneration, (5) lipoid degeneration, (6) calcification, and (7) fibrocartilaginous and bony metaplasia. A major issue is that tendinosis is not necessarily symptomatic. The role of physical activity on the presence of tendinosis is not clear, even though it appears that ultrasound changes are present in asymptomatic patellar tendons of a proportion of elite athletes, but rarely present in non-athletes. In the Achilles tendon, following a rupture, patients' asymptomatic opposite side tendons also have intratendinous alterations.
 
How can I prevent tendonitis?
 
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      When you exercise, wear equipment that is proper and right for the activity.
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      Gently stretch before and after exercising.
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      Use proper form and posture during your activities, whether they are sports or job-related. For instance, be sure your tennis stroke is correct and that your tennis racket has the proper grip size.
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      Warm up before exercising or doing other activities.
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      Ice any stiff or sore joints after exercise or work.
 
What are the symptoms?
 
Tendonitiscan range from mild to severe. Symptoms may include: pain, tenderness, stiffness, heat or restriction of motion. The pain may only come on from use of the muscle with the tendon or when more severe may be constant, especially noticeable at night.
 
 
X-rays may be taken to examine the site for bony ab
normalities or evidence of arthritis. Some people have an unusual anatomy in which the bone around the tendon reduces the space between it and the tendon.
X-rays will indicate this, and will also reveal any bone spurs around the tendon. If the tendon area is noticeably swollen, your doctor may want to take fluid out of any related joint to test for infection.
 
A test called an may be used if your physician suspects a tear of a tendon around a joint. For this test, dye is injected into the shoulder joint before x-rays are taken. If dye leaks out of the place where it was injected into the joint, there is likely to be a tear at that location. An can also show whether there has been a tear in the tendons. Sometimes ultrasound is used to examine the joint.arthogramMRI scan
 
Another common test for impingement involves the injection of a small amount of local anesthetic (such as novocaine or lidocaine hydrochloride) into the space around the tendon. This test helps eliminate the possibility that the pain results from a problem in the spine. If pain subsides immediately after injection, tendonitis syndrome is likely to be the cause of discomfort.
 
How is tendonitis typically treated?
 
This condition requires multiple approaches to treatment, since it has multiple aspects. No one treatment approach will address the whole problem. Traditional research on the subject focuses just on the condition or pathology and is diagnosis based. My treatment approach is whole problem and whole person based and deals with the problem from multiple directions. How well treatment works will still depend on the mix of factors involved in any given individual. One time miracles happen but mostly it a long term process, especially to prevent future problems.
 
Often people try to endure their pain. They hope that it will simply go away. Unfortunately, more serious symptoms may begin if these early symptoms are ignored. The occasional pain will change to constant aching, pain, and stiffness before, during, and after exercise. The tendon will also become tender to touch.
 
If you are having pain, some conservative options include:
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      Temporarily stop the activity that is causing the problem.
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      Ice the area for 5 to 10 minutes with ice massage every 3 or 4 hours.
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      The best way to do this is to freeze water in a paper cup, peal part of the cup away, and rub the ice directly on the injured area.
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      You can continue activities that do not stress or cause pain to the injured area.
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      Make sure to stretch before doing any activities.
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      You may need to cross train or cross exercise - instead of doing only one sport, try swimming, rowing, jogging, or biking to prevent overuse.
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      Take pain medicines as needed.
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      See your provider if the problem does not clear up in a couple of weeks.
span style="font-style: normal; font-variant: normal; font-weight: normal; font-family: Times New Roman">      Irritated tendons can rupture if left untreated and continue to be stressed.