McGordons trade activities is made as an E-trade activates among selected partners around the world.
Our Middle East company; is specialised on E-trade and E-transactions. McGordons LLC
Available models March 2003
We do not sell less than 5,000 units / order.
 
Quick links to project and projects within McGordons.
Sony Ericsson T-300N E W
Designed for elegance, but definitely not just a pretty face. Clean design, distinctive lines, a full-colour screen and quality materials on the surface. And underneath an amazing array of features. 
We have more , or you may just click on the SonyEricsson logo and can find all the details about T300 at their web/portal. details here
Sony Ericsson MC25N E W
Just being updated.....
Sony Ericsson T-61z No stockavailable
Sony Ericsson T61z, the model which has everything you need to unleash your potential. 
The T61z has a high capacity phone book which allows you to save multiple numbers per name. 
The calendar stores appointments and to-do lists. Synchronize your calendar and contact list with your PC or PDA. Your messaging just got better, too. 
 
T65SPECIFICATIONSSOLD-OUT
The Ericsson T65 gives you one-button access to the Mobile Internet. Press and hold the blue access key and you are instantly connected to a world of entertainment and news and can start to download pictures and ring signals right away. And since the T65 is a GPRS phone, you can be assured that you get fast connections. Supporting EMS, the T65 has all you need for creative messaging - pictures, animations, sounds and ring signals. You can even draw your own pictures using the built-in picture editor. The Picture Phonebook feature lets you assign a picture to a contact in the phone book so you can see who's calling. The T65 also supports cool features such as background picture, Mobile Chat, calendar and four games.
 
R380 World SPECIFICATIONSSOLD-OUT
The Ericsson R380 World gives you access to all GSM services in Europe, Asia/Pacific, Africa and the Americas. This small-sized dual band "smartphone" combines the functions of a mobile phone with advanced communication features such as WAP services, SMS and e-mail. It has a complete range of PDA-like tools including address book, calendar, notepad and support for synchronization with industry-leading PC applications.
It is available in two distinct colours: Classic Blue and Desert Green.
Do you want to read more about the features, just click here
Download the manual in PDF format,
just click here
 
If you are interested to purchase mobile phones, you are welcome to send us your interest, but be sure to include full details of your company/group, we will only response to serious request who has given us proper and clear information and facts. Send your enquiry to: trade@mcgordons.com
Main Links    