Totally Explained
  FOR SALE!
Either this or the left-hand panel are available on all 4m pages for just $19.95 per day, or have both for only $34.95! for details.  
Contact us
(- ), also known as , was once a major world city but was destroyed entirely by the . Today it's a small town in the , northern , about 20 kilometers northwest of the provincial capital, , and some 74 km (46 miles) south of the , the Oxus River of antiquity, of which a tributary formerly flowed past . It was one of the major cities of . The majority of people in this city speak Farsi.    The ancient city of , in today's , is associated with the name Bhakri, which the Greeks later named , giving its name to . It was mostly known as the centre and capital of Bactria or Takharistan. Balkh is now for the most part a mass of ruins, situated some 12 km from the right bank of the seasonally-flowing , at an elevation of about 365 m (1,200 ft). is one of the oldest cities of the region and is considered to be the first city to which the tribes moved from the North of , approximately between 2000 - 1500 . The Arabs called it or due to its antiquity.    The changing climate has led to since antiquity, when the region was very fertile. The city's long history and former importance are recognized by the native population, who speak of it as the and the birth place of at Balkh and also believed by that he's buried there. Its foundation is mythically ascribed to , the first king of the world in legend; and it's at least certain that, at a very early date, it was the rival of , and . There is a long-standing tradition that an ancient shrine of was to be found here, a temple so rich it invited plunder.    For a long time the city and country was the central seat of the , the founder of which, Zoroaster, died within the walls, according to the Persian poet . Armenian sources state that the Parthian Arsac established his capital here. Some scholars believe that a number of mythological rulers of ancient Iran for example some kings of (or Kayanian in ) were historically local rulers of an area centerd around Balkh. According to some scholars, the Kingdom described in the ancient Indian epic the is actually the same as Balkh, which would mean that this region had connections with the North Indian Vedic civilization through the first millennium BCE.    From the of , we learn that, at the time of his visit in the 7th century, there were in the city, or its vicinity, about a hundred Buddhist convents, with 3,000 devotees, and that there was a large number of stupas, and other religious monuments. The most remarkable was the , which possessed a very costly statue of . The temple was led by called Pramukh (who, through the arabized form of the name, , came to be known as the ). Shortly before the Arabic conquest, the monastery became a Zoroastrian fire-temple. A curious notice of this building is found in the writings of Arabian geographer , an Arabian traveler of the 10th century, who describes Balkh as built of clay, with ramparts and six gates, and extending half a parasang. He also mentions a castle and a mosque.    At the time of the Islamic conquest of in the 7th century, however, Balkh had provided an outpost of resistance and a safe haven for the Persian emperor who fled there from the armies of Umar. Later, in the 9th century, during the reign of , Islam became firmly rooted in the local population. , in the 12th century, speaks of its possessing a variety of educational establishments, and carrying on an active trade. There were several important commercial routes from the city, stretching as far east as and .    In sacked Balkh, butchered its inhabitants and levelled all the buildings capable of defense — treatment to which it was again subjected in the 14th century by . Notwithstanding this, however, could still describe it as "a noble city and a great."    In the 16th century the entered . The Moghul fruitlessly fought them there for several years in the 1640s. Balkh formed the government seat of in his youth. In it was conquered by . Under the monarchy it fell into the hands of the Afghans; it was conquered by Murad of in , and for some time was subject to the . In , of the Barakzai, captured Balkh, and from that time it remained under Afghan rule. In , Balkh lost its administrative status to the neighboring city of . Because of a outbreak during flood season at Balkh, the regional capital was shifted in the 1870s to Mazar-e Sharif. In 1911, the described a settlement of about 500 Afghan settlers, a colony of s and a small set in the midst of a waste of ruins and acres of debris. Entering by the west () gate, one passed under three arches, in which the compilers recognized the remnants of the former Friday Mosque (). The outer walls, mostly in utter disrepair, were estimated about 6½-7 miles (10.5 to 11.3 km) in perimeter. In the south-east, they were set high on a mound or rampart, which indicated a origin to the compilers.    The fort and citadel to the north-east are built well above the town on a barren mound and are walled and moated. There was, however, little left but the remains of a few pillars. The Green Mosque , named for its green-tiled dome (), is said to be the tomb of the (pictured to the right). Nothing but the arched entrance remained of the former .    The town was garrisoned in 1911 by a few hundred irregulars (), the regular troops of being cantoned at , near Mazari Sharif. The gardens to the north-east contained a that formed one side of a courtyard, which was shaded by a group of magnificent chenar trees . A project of modernization was undertaken in 1934, in which eight streets were laid out, housing and bazaars built. Modern Balkh is a center of the cotton industry, of the skins known commonly as "Persian" lamb, and for agricultural produce like almonds and melons. Numerous places of interest are to be seen today aside from the ancient ruins and fortifications: No professional had ever been able to work at Balkh until 2003 when excavations started to identify early strata down to the period of the and the . Remains of Hellenistic capitals were found, identified as remnants of the and city of .    The earlier constructions have proved more durable than the Islamic period buildings. The is 50 yd (46 m) in diameter at the base and 30 yd (27 m) at the top, circular and about 50 ft (15 m) high. Four circular vaults are sunk in the interior and four passages have been pierced below from the outside, which probably lead to them. The base of the building is constructed of sun-dried bricks about 2 ft (600 mm) square and 4 or 5 in (100 to 130 mm) thick. The is wedge-shaped in plan with uneven sides. It is apparently built of mud (for example mud mixed with straw and puddled). It is possible that in these ruins we may recognize the described by the Chinese traveller . There are the remains of many other topes (or s) in the neighborhood.    The mounds of ruins on the road to Mazar-e Sharif probably represent the site of a city yet older than those on which stands the modern Balkh. was the main city from which the s moved to the other parts of Persia and . It remained as a key city for the spread of Aryan Civilization for several centuries.    Balkh had a major role in the development of and . The early works of Persian literature were written by the poets and writers who were originally from Balkh.    Many famous came from Balkh. for example