Guajara in other languages: , , , ... Spanish Deutsch French Italian
Satellite
A is an object that orbits another object. pulls the satellite closer to the primary object it orbits, but the satellite is moving perpendicular to that pull so quickly that the satellite continually avoids colliding with the primary object.satellite Gravity
Because all objects exert gravity, the motion of the primary object is also affected by the satellite. (This observation allows for the discovery of extrasolar planets.) If two objects are sufficiently similar in mass, they are generally referred to as a rather than a primary object and satellite. The general criterion for an object to be a satellite is that the of the two objects is inside one of the objects. binary system center of mass
All masses that are part of the , including the , are satellites of the , or satellites of those objects, such as the . solar system Earth Sun Moon
In common usage, the term is usually used to describe an (As opposed to ).artificial satellite natural satellites
With sufficient tangential , the object does not collide with the primary object it orbits, but maintains a distance from that object as the rate at which it falls towards that object is similar to the rate that it travels away, thus the object orbits the primary object and becomes a satellite. In other words: serves as the needed to make the object circle the primary object. The motion of the satellite around its primary gravitational source is known as . velocity gravitational force centripetal force freefall
Table of contents
, , the stated, "A satellite vehicle with appropriate instrumentation can be expected to be one of the most potent of the . The achievement of a satellite craft would produce repercussions comparable to the explosion of the ..." (see: ) In May 1946 Preliminary Design of an Experimental World-Circling Spaceship scientific tools Twentieth Century atomic bomb Project RAND
The space age began in , as scientists began using captured V-2 rockets to make measurements in the upper atmosphere. Before this period, scientists could use balloons up to and radio waves to study the ionosphere, changed that. From 1946 to , upper-atmosphere was conducted using V-2s and Aerobee rockets. This allowed measurements of , , and up to 200 . (see also: , ) 1946 1 German 30 km rockets 1952 research atmospheric pressure density temperature km magnetosphere Van Allen radiation belt
The had been considering launching satellites since under the Bureau of Aeronautics of the . The Project RAND eventually released the above report, but did not believe that the satellite was a potential military , rather they considered it to be a tool for , , and . In , the Secretary of Defense stated, "I know of no American satellite program." US orbital 1945 United States Navy Air Force's weapon science politics propaganda 1954
Following, pressure by the , the , and the ; military interest picked up and in early the Air Force and Navy were working on , which involved using a to launch a small satellite called on January 31st . American Rocket Society National Science Foundation International Geophysical Year 1955 Project Orbiter Jupiter C rocket Explorer 1 1958
On , , the announced that the US intended to launch satellites by the of . This became known as . On , the Soviets announced that they intended to launch a satellite by the of and on , 1957 was launched into orbit. July 29 1955 White House spring 1958 Project Vanguard July 31 fall 1957 October 4 Sputnik I