x
ED502
* required before student may register for courses Prepare a short essay of approximately 300 words (one page) describing why you are interested in this particular degree program.  Your sample should preferably be written in Word and double-spaced.  The Education degree coordinator will use your writing sample to assess your written communications skills. 
* Writing Sample
Two character references are required from people who can attest to your moral and ethical character.  Examples of such people include supervisors, religious leaders, military commanders, school officials, or others who know you well and can provide credible information about you. Forms will be provided to you by your admissions representative. Once forms are completed and signed by the references, send them to APUS following the document submission instructions below.* Character References
Please e-mail a copy of your resume or CV to   Make sure that you have included job titles, dates, and organizations as appropriate.* Resume/CV (Curriculum Vitae)
documents@apus.edu
Students in the Administration and Supervision degree must provide evidence to show that they have 3 years experience in teaching or management.  Examples of documentation may include such items as letters from supervisors, Human Resources departments or school districts, teacher evaluation reports, etc. * Documentation of Experience
Documents can be sent via e-mail to OR via fax to 304-724-3788 OR by mail to APUS 10110 Battleview Parkway Suite 114 Manassas, VA 20109.Document Submission
documents@apus.edu
Students must complete specific undergraduate courses before they graduate from the degree program.  Courses may be completed at APUS or another institution and transferred into APUS.  A list of these courses will provided in a separate document.Co-requisites and Undergraduate Transcript Review
Students should be aware that a portfolio of their work will be assembled as they complete their degree program.  An electronic portfolio product will be used and purchased through Foliotek. Students will be required to pay a one-time fee of $125 dollars for the software, and set it up on their computer. Specific details and instructions will be provided during the first course.e-folio (Foliotek)
Students are required to take the course indicated in the table above (ED502 or ED503) as the first course in their degree program.  Other courses may be taken in conjunction with the first course, but the students must complete the first required course during their initial class term at APUS.First Course
They will work closely with a mentor teacher whether or not they are actually employed in that classroom.  Individuals working on a permit and currently employed as teachers may participate in this program as a means to obtain their license.  The employment location may be used as for the supervised teaching experience in the clinical supervision course.  Individuals not employed by a school during participation in this program are required to have the half time access to the classroom as described in the first sentence of this paragraph.Post-Baccalaureate Teacher Preparation Teacher Certification Program
Participants are required to have the access and ability to participate in a secondary classroom during .EDUC697 Clinical Supervision
Prior to the clinical supervision course, participants will complete assignments for other AMU/APU courses that necessitate on-site classroom participation in a secondary school classroom.  These assignments require 10 or more hours of observation or other activities per AMU/APU course and will be supervised as described above.  Ideally the participant will work in the same classroom for the observation assignments and the clinical supervision, but this is not required.
Participants who have not yet taken the Praxis I exam must complete this test with a passing grade by the time they have completed 9 (or received TCE) credits in the post-baccalaureate program.  The Praxis II test 0524 is required at the completion of the program, before the participant is eligible to apply for certification in the state of West Virginia.
AMU is a member institution of the American Public University System (APUS), which is regionally accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) of the  and nationally accredited by the Accrediting Commission, . North Central Association Distance Education and Training Council
2008 American Military University | 111 W. Congress Street, Charles Town, WV 25414 | Toll Free: 1-877-755-2787 | |  | | | |  |