   Weblogs
Authors
The Current Music Blog is the place for the staff of 89.3 The Current to talk to you about music, what's up with the station, and share in the occasional weirdness of radio. () () () () () () () () () () () - Host, 89.3 The Current Jacquie Fuller works in Development at MPR, and is getting her feet wet on-air at The Current. Before moving to Minnesota, she worked at KRUX-FM in Las Cruces, NM. She likes heat. - Administrative Music Assistant Inspired by her impromptu debut gig at the playground with the Teddy Bear Band (and the autographed cassette tape she received for compensation), Lindsay grabbed her Fisher Price tape recorder and started a career in radio that went into college and now the Current. While there isn't a reunion tour planned for Lindsay and the Teddy Bear Band, she is still a huge fan of live music. - Marketing Manager, 89.3 the Current Ali Lozoff is the Marketing Manager for The Current and the author of the weekly e-mail newsletter "Cross Currents." She's been in the Twin Cities long enough to feel like a native, but not long enough to give in to "Minnesota Nice." She loves music but hates musicals. - Producer, The Morning Show - Assistant Music Director, 89.3 the Current David started out as a DJ at the University of Minnesota's music station, Radio K. His favorite moment of 2006 was asking Greg Anderson the question, "Art? Rock? or Art-Rock?". - Senior Communications Specialist, 89.3 the Current Christina Schmitt joined MPR in 2003 and does publicity work for MPR's regional services - 89.3 The Current, MPR News, and Events. She also plays guitar (a 1957 Danelectro, black) and tries to get as much rock and roll into her life as she can. - Production Manager, 89.3 the Current "By the time I was 9 years old, I knew the radio industry was meant for me. I would set up two boom boxes and record myself playing DJ, usually imitating New York's number one urban contemporary jock Frankie Crocker. By doing this, I was able to overcome a serious stuttering problem I had as a child and gained the confidence to speak publicly." - Music Director, 89.3 the Current Originally from Los Angeles, Melanie moved to the Twin Cities in 2005, fell in love with the music scene, and hasn't regretted it one bit. - Web Producer, 89.3 the Current Like all good English majors, Michael came to the world of the Internet via the restaurant industry in the early '90s. He's been doing this long enough to know better, but he can't help himself. Unlike most bass players, he was never the third best guitarist.
On-air Hosts: