- USA Volleyball December 09, 2008B.J. Hoeptner Evans
Photo: FIVB
The U.S. Women's National Team celebrates its silver medal in Beijing.
B.J. Hoeptner Evans Manager, Media Relations and Publications Phone: (719) 228-6800 E-Mail:
bj.evans@usav.org
Volleyball teams and fans from around the country can celebrate USA Volleyball's success in Beijing at the Tour of Glory on Jan. 17-19 at the High Performance Volleyball Academy (HPVBA) in Lakewood, N.J.COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. (Dec. 9, 2008) –
USA Volleyball experienced unprecedented success at the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing, winning gold medals in indoor men's volleyball and men's and women's beach volleyball and a silver medal in women’s indoor volleyball. The medal haul was capped off when the U.S. Women's Sitting Team won a silver medal at the 2008 Paralympic Games.
Headliners at the event will include U.S. Men’s National Team Head Coach Hugh McCutcheon, members of the 2008 U.S. Women’s Olympic Team – Lindsey Berg, Nicole Davis and Stacy Sykora – and past Olympians Eric Fonoimoana, Pat Powers, Sinjin Smith and Kevin Barnett, who was one of NBC’s commentators at the Summer Games in Beijing.
The Tour of Glory will feature a volleyball tournament and celebrity banquet to raise funds to support the USA Volleyball national teams programs.
USA Volleyball has teamed with the Garden Empire Volleyball Association (GEVA) to sanction the event and the High Performance Volleyball Academy for its production.
"This event at a spectacular facility like the HPVBA is a great way to celebrate the success of all our teams at the 2008 Summer Games and support them financially," said USA Volleyball CEO Doug Beal. "We want to connect the heroes of our sport with our members, especially our young players."
Boys’, girls’ and adult teams are invited to register for the three-day tournament, which will be played on the 22 courts of the HPVBA.
The Olympic volleyball personalities will be available during play on Saturday at the HPVBA facility for meet-and-greet clinic, autograph and photo sessions. The personalities will also be available at the banquet on Saturday evening.
"At the end of the day, we represent America. This gives us a wonderful opportunity to interact with volleyball players and fans who have supported our team throughout our Olympic journey," McCutcheon said.
Tournament registration is $600. Tickets to the banquet are $200 per plate and admission to the tournament is $5. Profits will be donated to USA Volleyball for the benefit of its national teams programs.
For more information, go to . www.tourofglory.com
Tags: