Legal Disclaimer and Terms of Use - Annuity Planners
THE MATERIALS AND INFORMATION IN THIS SITE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" AND WITHOUT WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED.
The content provided by this web site and its links are for informational purposes only and is in no way intended to render medical advice or professional services, or to be a substitute for qualified professional consultation. It is your responsibility to evaluate the accuracy, completeness and usefulness of any opinions, advice, services or other information provided. All information contained on any page is distributed with the understanding that the authors, publishers and distributors are not rendering legal, accounting or other professional advice or opinions on specific facts or matters, and accordingly assume no liability whatsoever in connection with its use. Consult your own professional advisor with respect to your personal situation.
Annuity Planners and its related, affiliated and subsidiary companies disclaim all warranties, expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. In no event shall Annuity Planners and its related, affiliated and subsidiary companies be liable for any direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages arising out of the use of the information herein
This website cannot and does not warrant expressly or implied the accuracy, completeness, timeliness, correctness, non-infringement, lack of defect in product design or manufacture, or merchantability of fitness for a particular purpose of the information, views, or advertisements available through this website, the site itself or any site references through this site.
To the extent allowable by law, this website shall not be liable to you or anyone else for any loss or injury caused in whole or in part by its negligence or contingencies in procuring, compiling, interpreting, reporting or delivering this website, and any information or advertisements through this website. To the extent allowable by law, this website will not be liable to you or anyone else for any decision made or action taken by you in reliance on such information or views or for any direct, incidental, consequential, special, or similar damages even if advised of the possibility of such damages.
Copyright Notices
Unless otherwise noted, the graphic images, buttons, layout, and text contained in this Web site are the exclusive property of Annuity Planners and its related, affiliated and subsidiary companies, and may not be copied or distributed, in whole or in part, without the express written consent of Annuity Planners. Permission is granted to print copies of this document, and to display and use this document with a computer solely for personal or internal use. Insurance company logos are the exclusive property of the respective insurance companies, and are used with permission.
Intended Audience
This site is published for most, but not all, residents of the United States of America. Information concerning the identity, history and products of each insurance company represented by Annuity Planners is intended for residents of states in which that insurance company is licensed. No applications will be sought or accepted on behalf of any insurance company from a resident of a state in which that company is not licensed.
Product Restrictions
Policies not available in all states. Misrepresentation restrictions may apply. All applications for insurance are subject to Underwriting qualification by the specific insurance company to which the application is submitted. Availability of premium rates and policy forms may be changed by each insurer without prior notice.
Important Notice
This comparison is for educational purposes only. These are only brief descriptions of company stability ratings and policy features. Only the policies themselves contain governing contractual provisions. If you're interested in a particular policy, we'll send you a complete package of information containing all state-required materials, including the Outline of Coverage.
We've worked hard to ensure the accuracy of this information. However, policy provisions, financial ratings and laws are subject to change, so we cannot guarantee their accuracy. Features and rates can vary by state.