Ohio (Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young song)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
file info help
"" is a written by in reaction to the of , and performed by . It was released as a single, peaking at #14 on the . Although a live version of the song was included on the group's 1974 , the studio version of both songs did not appear on an LP until the group's compilation was released in 1974.Ohio protest song Neil Young Kent State shootings May 4 1970 Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young Billboard Hot 100 double album Four Way Street So Far
It also appears on Young's album, recorded in 1971 but not released until 2007. Live at Massey Hall
Contents
[] edit Recording
Young penned the lyrics to "Ohio" after seeing the in magazine. On the evening that CSNY entered in , the song had already been rehearsed, and the quartet with their regular rhythm section recorded it live in just a few takes. During the same session they recorded the single's equally direct , ode to the war's dead, "Find the Cost of Freedom." photos of the incident Life [1] Record Plant Studios Los Angeles b-side Stephen Stills'
The record was with the participation of the four principals, rush-released by and heard on the radio with only a few weeks delay (this despite the group already having their hit song "" on the charts at the time). In his liner notes for the song on the retrospective, Young reported that " cried when we finished this take." Crosby can be heard "four, why? why did they die?" and "how many more?" in the fade. mastered Atlantic Teach Your Children Decade David Crosby [2] keening
[] edit Lyrics and reaction
The lyrics help evoke the turbulent mood of horror, outrage and shock in the wake of the shootings, especially the line "four dead in Ohio," repeated throughout the song. "Tin soldiers and Nixon coming," refers to the Ohio who killed the student protesters and Young's attribution of their deaths to the , . Crosby once stated that Young keeping Nixon's name in the lyrics was "the bravest thing I ever heard." After the double's release, it was banned from some because of the challenge to the Nixon Administration in the lyrics, but received airplay on then underground stations in larger cities and college towns. The American took the group as its own after this song, giving the four a status as leaders and spokesmen they would enjoy to varying extent for the rest of the . National Guardsmen President of the United States Richard Nixon AM radio stations FM counterculture decade
This song was selected as the 385th Greatest Song of All Time by in December 2004. Rolling Stone
Notable covers of the song:
1971
The song was recorded by on their album from 1971. The Isley Brothers Givin it Back
1993
recorded a cover during the sessions for , and it was released as a b-side to his single "The Weaver." Paul Weller Wild Wood
2002
The song was later covered by on the 2002 album . The song was of particular significance to this group. Two of its founding members, and , were students at Kent State during the killings, Casale having witnessed the shooting and known two of the victims. Casale was not impressed by it at the time, seeing it as an opportunist song by "rich hippies... making money off of something horrible... that they didn't get." In s liner notes, Young reflected in 1976 that, "[i]t's ironic that I capitalized on the death of those American students." Devo When Pigs Fly: Songs You Never Thought You'd Hear Jerry Casale Mark Mothersbaugh [3] Decade' [2]
performed a segment of the song live as a bridge for her own song "Pancake" (uncertain date, though "Pancake" was released on in 2002). Tori Amos Scarlet's Walk
2004
placed a version of the song on their 2004 B-sides and covers album , available only through the band's website. The Dandy Warhols Come on Feel the Dandy Warhols
2006
The song has been covered acoustically live by the band during their fall 2006 co-headlining tour, with , during Rise Against's encore. Rise Against Thursday
and The Valkyries added the song to their live set list in late 2006. John & Mary
British rock band covered the song as part of their live set from 2006 to 2007. Winterville
2008