International Trombone Festival 2008, Salt Lake City
By Matt Buckmaster
International Trombone Festival 2009, Denmark
General Announcement
Plus
Don Lucas' President's Column, General News, Medical Corner, Orchestral Sectional, Literature, Audio/Video Reviews, Literature Reviews and much more.
The International Trombone Association annually bestows several awards. Nominations are now being accepted for both the ITA Award and the Neill Humfeld Award.
More >>
SmartMusic Offer Extended
ITA is delighted to announce the extension of the exclusive offer with SmartMusic. Also in 2008 ITA members will be able to purchase a discounted subscription to SmartMusic for just $30 a year (regularly $130). In addition, educator members can extend this offer to their students.
Learn more ››
ITA Introducing Giveline
The International Trombone Association is now to be found on Giveline.com - an online store created for the community-minded shopper. Every purchase generates a substantial donation to the International Trombone Association in support of our mission!
AIM Needs Sponsors and Recipients
ITA is looking for Sponsors and Recipients for the Assist an International Member (AIM) program.
By donating the ITA student rate of $30 you can sponsor the yearly membership of an international trombonist without the means for making personal payment, typically from low-income countries. While some members make a one-time donation, others have sponsored the same individuals for many years. We encourage you to participate by going to and making a donation.
www.trombone.net/aim
A sponsorship can be for a specific person, or be a general donation which allows ITA to assign a recipient to you.
Concurrent with this request, we are working to make our list of individuals in need of a sponsor longer! If you know anybody eligible please send names and complete mailing addresses to ITA's AIM Membership Coordinator, David Begnoche at . david@trombone.net
Making a donation or adding a recipient can open a new world getting to know fellow trombone players you would normally never come across!Please AIM today!
Quotations Database
Has a teacher ever said something that made a big impression on you? Perhaps it was an insight that helped your playing or motivated you to work harder. The words of a good teacher can have a profound impact.
ITA has of inspiring words from a variety of trombonists. Read them all and submit helpful quotes from your experiences. compiled a database
The ITA Recordings Database lists almost 900 hundred recordings of trombone repertoire. An example of the list is below with the complete database being fully accessible and searchable in our . members only section
Powered By Powered By Powered By Survey QuestionPro