Tornado/Severe Thunderstorm
Tornado Watches and Warnings
A tornado watch means that weather conditions are favorable for the formation of a tornado. A tornado warning is issued when a tornado has actually been sighted in the surrounding area. Emergency warning sirens are activated when there is a tornado warning.
Emergency Warning Sirens
The emergency warning sirens emit a continuous three-minute sound warning.
The siren is used to alert the public of an impending danger such as tornado, severe thunderstorm with high winds or large hail, hazardous material spill, or a safety threat. If you hear the siren, you should take cover inside away from glass doors and windows, and tune into your local radio or television stations for further instructions. If you cannot get to a radio or television, initiate tornado protection procedures as this is the most likely reason for the siren to sound.
The siren does not sound for the entire duration of a tornado warning. Do not assume that the danger has passed when the siren stops sounding.
The emergency warning siren is tested each Friday at 11 a.m. These tests last for 30 seconds. If the emergency warning siren sounds on a Friday morning for longer than 30 seconds, you should initiate tornado protection procedures.
If a tornado warning has been issued and you are inside:
Stay inside.
Stay away from outside walls, windows, mirrors, glass, overhead fixtures, and unsecured objects such as filing cabinets or bookcases.
If possible, move to a below-ground-level floor, interior corridor, or room or office without windows and crouch low with your hands covering the back of your head and neck.
Do not use elevators.
If requested, assist persons with disabilities to the safest area on the same floor.
Do not leave the shelter area until after the storm is over.
Continue to monitor the weather via radio or television until the tornado warning has been lifted for your area.
If a tornado warning has been issued and you are outside:
If you are in your car, get out of it. Never try to outrun a tornado.
Look for a nearby safe structure in which to take shelter.
If there is no shelter, lie down flat in a low area such as a ditch away from trees with your hands covering the back of your head and neck.