 
Published by Hal Leonard Publishing Co.Master Solos—Intermediate Level (for trombone and piano)
This collection of classical solos has been arranged for trombone and piano.  Music has been chosen from 17th, 18th, 19th, and 20th centuries (some of which is original music especially written for this collection).  also is available with a cassette recording on which Buddy plays each solo with piano.  Included is the piano accompaniment of each piece. (A pitch-adjustable cassette player is recommended when using this tape.)Master Solosjust
Published by Alfred Publishing Co.The Buddy Baker Tenor Trombone Method
This method offers an approach to trombone basics, warm-up, and daily routine (for the tenor trombone with or without an F-attachment).  It includes basic information about breathing, embouchure, tonguing, and lip flexibility, and suggests daily routines for younger players through professional-level performers.
By Buddy Baker and David Hanson Songs for the Young Trombonist
Though is currently out of print, Buddy recently has revised this collection and plans to have it reprinted by ITA Press.  Watch for new information on this web site about date of availability. This collection of eight original ballads is for trombonists with two to four years of experience, and can also be used at the advanced level for the study of ballad style, vibrato, tone and phrasing.  Each solo is one page long. The accompanying piano parts are written by David Hanson and feature Bill Evans type voicings.  These simple songs sound beautiful!Songs for the Young Trombonist
Published by ITA PressThe Buddy Baker Tenor Trombone Handbook
Published by , is distributed by Southern Music Company, P.O. Box 329, San Antonio, Texas 78292. Phone: (210) 226-8167 Fax: (210) 223-4537 Email: . This is a sourcebook of materials for both young and more experienced tenor trombonists (both classical and jazz players) and for the trombone teacher.  is designed for use with the . ITA Press The Buddy Baker Tenor Trombone Handbook
info@southernmusic.com The Buddy Baker Tenor Trombone HandbookBuddy Baker Tenor Trombone Method
 