Mike Kennedy - 208-762-8065 ext. 11 - mkennedy@intermaxnetworks.com ###
Intermax Networks Partners with Kootenai Health To Manage Medical Data Network -
Partnership means more durable data network for physicians and health service providers
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
June 11, 2008
Contact:
COEUR D'ALENE - Kootenai Health and Intermax Networks today announced that the hospital has selected Intermax to maintain and enhance their wide area network that connects doctors and medical professionals to the hospital and the internet. This service of Kootenai Health allows doctors secure access to patient records and images and very fast internet connections from their offices or homes.
The Kootenai Health wireless network has been installed and running for several years. With the increasing need for internet bandwidth and opportunities for doctors to provide more timely and convenient patient services, hospital management decided to find a local partner with expertise in private microwave networks to partner on the project.
"Kootenai Health has been a pioneer in medical technology for a long time," said Mike Kennedy, President of Intermax Networks. "The service they provide to the community, and their medical professionals, is exceptional and we are pleased to be a part of improving and enhancing their microwave network."
"Intermax gives us many options for service and support and their network technical expertise is exceptional", said Tom Legel, Vice President and CFO of Kootenai Health. The partnership between the companies also will allow the hospital to expand service to doctors whose offices and homes may not have had the opportunity to get service before.
"We look forward to a long and prosperous relationship with Kootenai Health, assisting them in their mission of a healthier community," stated Kennedy.
About Intermax Networks - Intermax was formed in 2001 and has built the largest private microwave and fiber optic data network in North Idaho. Intermax serves residential, business and enterprise class internet data customers as well as select residential communities with video, data and VoIP. For more information visit www.IntermaxNetworks.com.
About Kootenai Health - Kootenai Health exists to meet the health-care needs of North Idaho through service excellence, community leadership and compassionate care. For more information visit . www.kootenaihealth.org
 
Latest News
Aug21
COEUR D'ALENE - Intermax Networks today announced a new expansion of high-speed internet service to the residential areas on and around Hayden Lake. Hayden Lake has historically been underserved for broadband, high-speed internet due to geography and the high cost of building infrastructure to support a relatively smaller number of residents.Hayden Lake Gets Expanded High-Speed Internet Access From Intermax
Find Out More!
Aug20
Welcome to - complete with a face lift and better customer communications tools. Browse around, check your email (if you're an Intermax customer), give us feedback, and return frequently for updates!Intermax Launches New Web Site!
IntermaxNetworks.com
Jul17
Partnership means more durable data network for physicians and health service providers COEUR D'ALENE Kootenai Health and Intermax Networks today announced that the hospital has selected Intermax to maintain and enhance their wide area network that connects doctors and medical professionals to the hospital and the internet. This service of Kootenai Health allows doctors secure access to patient records and images and very fast internet connections from their offices or homes.Intermax Networks Partners with Kootenai Health To Manage Medical Data Network