SNAP (Food Stamp) State Information/Hotline Numbers
 
Your local office should be listed in the government section of the local telephone book. This is generally the quickest way to find your local Food Stamp office. In addition to these local information numbers and the State information numbers listed below, there is also a .
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP, formerly Food Stamp Program) National SNAP (Food Stamp) Hotline
Use the following numbers to get information on SNAP (Food Stamp) questions in the States and areas of States listed. These hotlines can also tell you how to contact the local office responsible for SNAP in your locality. Most are toll-free numbers for in-State calls.
Some states use different names for the SNAP (Food Stamp) Program. See the topic for more information. Names of State SNAP (Food Stamp) Programs
This list is believed current as of July 2008. See Notes below table for further explanations.
 
1-800-869-1150 outside metro area, (404) 657-9358 inside metro area
Hawaii
 
NOTES:
* These numbers are for in-State and out-of-State calls. All other 800 numbers are for in-State calls only.
Source:
http://www.fns.usda.gov/fsp/contact_info/hotlines.htm
WorkWORLD™ Help/Information System
   : Click the button or link at left to select your favorite bookmark service and add this page. Share/Save
This is one topic from the thousands available in the WorkWORLD™ software Help/Information System. Complete information about the software is available at:
http://www.WorkWORLD.org
See How to Get WorkWORLD page at: http://www.WorkWORLD.org/howtogetWW.html
NOTE: Sponsored links and commercial advertisements help make the WorkWORLD™ website possible by partially defraying its operating and maintenance expenses. No endorsement of these or any related commercial products or services is intended or implied by the Employment Support Institute or any of its partners. ESI and its partners take no responsibility for, and exercise no control over, any of these advertisements or their views or contents, and do not vouch for the accuracy of the information contained in them. Readers are cautioned to verify all information obtained from these advertisements prior to taking any actions based upon them. The installed WorkWORLD software does not contain advertisements of any kind.
Copyright © 1996, 1997, 1998, 1999, 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, . All rights reserved. Virginia Commonwealth University