Partners
Insurance and Financial Services Center for Educational Excellence
Connecticut has the highest concentration of insurance jobs and key financial occupations in the nation.  The insurance and financial services industry is a primary economic driver throughout the state, with over 140,000 jobs representing 8% of Connecticut's labor market.  The industry has identified four critical occupations -- Financial Managers and Analysts, Accountants and Auditors, Financial Sales Agents and Brokers, and Actuaries -- which are projected to grow and also to require ongoing skill enhancement.  Consistent maintenance and development of skills in this knowledge-intensive workforce is a critical necessity.Key Jobs for Connecticut's Workforce
A U.S. Department of Labor grant will help create a curriculum for the first Associate Degree in Insurance and Financial Services to be offered at all 12 community colleges in Connecticut.  In addition, the grant provides funding for eligible participants to enroll in certificate programs or non-credit courses in Insurance and Finance.  A statewide partnership includes the Insurance and Financial Services Cluster, the Department of Economic and Community Development (DECD), Capital Community College, Norwalk Community College, and The WorkPlace, Inc. (grant administrator and fiduciary).Overview
Connecticut's "IFS Center for Educational Excellence" is one of five grantees under USDOL's President High Growth Job Training Initiative for this sector. The goals of the program are to develop a curriculum, to train 400 people within the initial 3-year grant period, and to provide a model for use nationally.  The Center will train dislocated workers, as well as those currently employed and underemployed. Through introductory, intermediate, and advanced level coursework, the program curriculum will provide transferable job skills for both entry level and experienced workers to advance in the Insurance and Finance sector. The program will also support economic growth by helping supply the talent needs of the industry.Goals
There is no cost to those enrolled in the program. Funding for the courses is provided through the grant for eligible participants.*No Cost to Participants
nbsp;Employed in State of Connecticut nbsp;Unemployed, dislocated or underemployed worker in State of Connecticut nbsp;No income requirementEligibility
If you are interested in learning more about this opportunity or how you can enroll, contact:Enrollment Process
Herman Chapman Program Implementation Manager (203) 610-8574   
*There may be a cap on funding per individual, depending on enrollment and available funding levels.
 