See also: Category:Iron minerals
The red appearance of this water is due to iron in the rocks.
Iron is the sixth most in the , formed as the final act of by burning in massive stars. While it makes up about 5% of the , the is believed to consist largely of an iron- alloy constituting 35% of the mass of the Earth as a whole. Iron is consequently the most abundant element on Earth, but only the fourth most abundant element in the Earth's crust. Most of the iron in the crust is found combined with as minerals such as and . About 1 in 20 consist of the unique iron-nickel minerals (35 80% iron) and (90 95% iron). Although rare, are the major form of natural metallic iron on the Earth's surface. abundant element universe nucleosynthesis carbon Earth's crust earth's core nickel [3] oxygen iron oxide hematite magnetite meteorites taenite kamacite meteorites
The reason for 's red color is thought to be an iron-oxide-rich soil. Mars
[] edit Characteristics
Iron is a extracted mainly from the . It oxidises readily in air and water to form and is rarely found as a free element. In order to obtain elemental iron, and other impurities must be removed by chemical . The properties of iron can be modified by it with various other metals and some non-metals, notably and to form . metal iron ore hematite FeO23 oxygen reduction alloying carbon silicon steels
Nuclei of iron atoms have some of the highest binding energies per nucleon, surpassed only by the Ni. The universally most abundant of the highly stable nuclides is, however, Fe. This is formed by nuclear fusion in stars. Although a further tiny energy gain could be extracted by synthesizing Ni, conditions in stars are unsuitable for this process to be favoured. Elemental distribution on Earth greatly favors iron over nickel, and also presumably in supernova element production. nickel isotope 625662 [4]
Iron (as Fe, ) is a necessary used by almost all living organisms. The only exceptions are several organisms that live in iron-poor environments and have evolved to use different elements in their metabolic processes, such as manganese instead of iron for catalysis, or instead of hemoglobin. Iron-containing enzymes, usually containing prosthetic groups, participate in catalysis of oxidation reactions in biology, and in transport of a number of soluble gases. See , , and .2+ ferrous ion trace element hemocyanin heme hemoglobin cytochrome catalase
Main article: Allotropes of iron
Iron represents perhaps the best-known example of in a metal. There are three allotropic forms of iron, known as alpha, gamma, and delta. allotropy
As molten iron cools down it crystallises at 1538  C into its delta allotrope, which has a (BCC) crystal structure. As it cools further its changes to (FCC) at 1394  C, when it is known as gamma-iron, or austenite. At 912  C the crystal structure again becomes BCC as alpha-iron is formed, and at 770  C (the Curie point, Tc) the iron becomes . As the iron passes through the Curie temperature there is no change in crystalline structure, but there is a change in "domain structure", where each domain contains iron atoms with a particular electronic spin. In unmagnetised iron, all the electronic spins of the atoms within one domain are in the same direction; however, in neighbouring domains they point in various directions and thus cancel out. In magnetised iron, the electronic spins of all the domains are all aligned, so that the magnetic effects of neighbouring domains reinforce each other. Although each domain contains billions of atoms, they are very small, about one thousandth of a centimetre across. body-centered cubic crystal structure face-centered cubic magnetic
Iron is of most importance when mixed with certain other metals and with carbon to form steels. There are many types of steels, all with different properties; and an understanding of the properties of the is key to the manufacture of good quality steels. allotropes of iron
Alpha iron, also known as ferrite, is the most stable form of iron at normal temperatures. It is a fairly soft metal that can dissolve only a small concentration of carbon (no more than 0.021% by mass at 910  C).
Above 912  C and up to 1401  C alpha iron undergoes a from body-centred cubic to the face-centred cubic configuration of gamma iron, also called . This is similarly soft and metallic but can dissolve considerably more carbon (as much as 2.04% by mass at 1146  C). This form of iron is used in the type of used for making cutlery, and hospital and food-service equipment. phase transition austenite stainless steel
[] edit Applications
Iron is the most widely used of all the metals, accounting for 95% of worldwide metal production. Its low cost and high strength make it indispensable in engineering applications such as the construction of machinery and machine tools, , the of large , and structural components for . Since pure iron is quite soft, it is most commonly used in the form of . Some of the forms in which iron is produced commercially include: automobiles hulls ships buildings steel
has 3.5 4.5% carbon and contains varying amounts of contaminants such as , and . Its only significance is that of an intermediate step on the way from to and . Pig iron [5] sulfur silicon phosphorus iron ore cast iron steel
contains 2 4% , 1 6% , and small amounts of . Contaminants present in pig iron that negatively affect material properties, such as sulfur and phosphorus, have been reduced to an acceptable level. It has a melting point in the range of 1420 1470 K, which is lower than either of its two main components, and makes it the first product to be melted when carbon and iron are heated together. Its mechanical properties vary greatly, dependent upon the form takes in the alloy. "White" cast irons contain their carbon in the form of , or iron carbide. This hard, brittle compound dominates the mechanical properties of white cast irons, rendering them hard, but unresistant to shock. The broken surface of a white cast iron is full of fine facets of the broken carbide, a very pale, silvery, shiny material, hence the appellation. In the carbon exists free as fine flakes of , and also renders the material brittle due to the stress-raising nature of the sharp edged flakes of graphite. A newer variant of grey iron, referred to as is specially treated with trace amounts of to alter the shape of graphite to spheroids, or nodules, vastly increasing the toughness and strength of the material. Cast iron carbon silicon manganese carbon cementite grey iron graphite ductile iron magnesium
contains less than 0.25% carbon. It is a tough, malleable product, but not as fusible as pig iron. If honed to an edge, it loses it quickly. Wrought iron is characterised by the presence of fine fibers of entrapped in the metal. Wrought iron is more corrosion resistant than steel. It has been almost completely replaced by for traditional "wrought iron" products and . Mild steel does not have the same corrosion resistance but is cheaper and more widely available. Wrought iron [5] slag mild steel blacksmithing
contains 2.0% or less, with small amounts of , , , and . Carbon steel carbon [6] manganese sulfur phosphorus silicon
contain varying amounts of carbon as well as other metals, such as , , , , , etc. They are used for structural purposes, as their alloy content raises their cost and necessitates justification of their use. Recent developments in ferrous metallurgy have produced a growing range of microalloyed steels, also termed 'HSLA' or high-strength, low alloy steels, containing tiny additions to produce high strengths and often spectacular toughness at minimal cost. Alloy steels chromium vanadium molybdenum nickel tungsten
are used in the production of media in computers. They are often mixed with other compounds, and retain their magnetic properties in solution. Iron(III) oxides magnetic storage
The main disadvantage of iron and steel is that pure iron, and most of its alloys, suffer badly from if not protected in some way. , , , plastic coating and are some techniques used to protect iron from rust by excluding and or by sacrificial protection. rust Painting galvanization passivation bluing water oxygen
[] edit Iron compounds
Iron chloride hexahydrate
Iron oxides (FeO, FeO, and FeO) are used for iron production (see and ). They are also used in the3423 ores bloomery blast furnace Space Shuttle Solid Rocket Boosters [] citation needed
Iron(III) acetate (Fe(CHO) is used in the of .2323 dyeing cloth
Iron(III) ammonium oxalate (Fe(NH)(CO)) is used in .43244 blueprints
Iron(III) arsenate (FeAsO) is used in .4 insecticide
(FeCl) is used: in purification and sewage treatment, in the dyeing of cloth, as a coloring agent in , as an additive in animal feed, and as an etching material for engravement, and printed circuits. Iron(III) chloride 3 water paints photography
Iron(III) chromate (Fe(CrO)) is used as a yellow pigment for paints and .243 ceramic
(Fe(OH)) is used as a brown for and in water purification systems. Iron(III) hydroxide 3 pigment rubber
(FePO) is used in and as an additive in human and animal food. Iron(III) phosphate 4 fertilizer
(Fe(CHO) is used in the dyeing of fabrics and , and as a preservative. Iron(II) acetate 2322 leather wood
(Fe(CHO)) is used as a dietary supplement in . Iron(II) gluconate 61172 iron pills
Iron(II) oxalate (FeCO) is used as yellow pigment for paints, , and ceramic, and in .24 plastics glass photography
(FeSO) is used in water purification and sewage treatment systems, as a in the production of , as an ingredient in fertilizer and , as an additive in animal feed, in wood preservative and as an additive to to increase iron levels. Experimental of areas of the ocean using has proven successful in increasing growth. Iron(II) sulfate 4 catalyst ammonia herbicide flour iron fertilization iron(II) sulfate plankton [7] [8] [9]
Iron-Fluorine complex (FeF) is found in solutions containing both Fe(III) and .63- ions fluoride ions
Potassium (KFeO) contains a tetra-oxo anion of iron in its highest known . Ferrate 24 Oxidation State