Labor and Employment Law Web Guide
Databases
Local, state, and national occupational, wage, and other labor market information from the U.S. Department of Labor. America's Labor Market Information System
Get the Comply-On-One Labor Law Poster for $29.95 Labor Law Poster
News releases, publications, and statistics. Covered Employment & Wages
Search tool for retrieving specific census information. Data Ferret
From the U.S. Census Bureau. Disability Statistics
Income data for the United States based on the U.S. Census. Earnings by Occupation and Education
News releases, publications, and statistics. Employment Cost Trends
News releases, publications, and statistics. Employment Projections
News releases, publications, and statistics. Employment Situation
Monitors and urges curtailing the excessive salaries and perks chief executive officers. Executive Paywatch
News releases, publications, and statistics. Foreign Labor Statistics
News releases, publications, and statistics. Industry Productivity
Calculate the cost of living in hundreds of U.S. and international cities. International Salary Calculator
Statistics from the U.S. Census Bureau. Minority & Women Owned Business Enterprises
News releases, publications, and statistics. Multifactor Productivity
News releases, publications, and statistics. Occupational Employment Statistics
Strives to make the U.S. labor market more efficient; contains information developed by job analysts using the O*NET skill-based structure. Occupational Information Network (O*NET)
News releases, publications, and statistics. Occupational Injury and Illness Classification Manual
Annual report, Orders and Standards, and Department of Energy Radiation Monitoring System. Occupational Radiation Exposure
Fee-based database of corporate regulatory violation histories. Include OSHA, Wage and Hour, NLRB, EEOC and others. OSHA DATA Regulatory Compliance History Information Service
Databases on inspections, accident investigations, and OSHA standards. OSHA Statistics & Data
News releases, publications, and statistics. Quarterly Labor Productivity
Local area economic data for states, counties, and metropolitan areas. Regional Economic Information System
News releases, publications, and statistics. Regional Information
News releases, publications, and statistics. Safety and Health Statistics
Nationwide salary information for a variety of professions. SalaryExpert.com
News releases, publications, and statistics. State & Area Current Employment Statistic
From Crone & Mason. Index of overtime wages for all 50 states. StateOvertimeLaw.com
From the Bureau of the Census. A monthly survey of about 50,000 households. The Current Population Survey
Data for making major policy decisions that affect retirement, health insurance, saving and economic well-being. The Health and Retirement Study
Current minimum wage, history, charts, and employee and employer rights. The Minimum Wage
(Yahoo!) Labor information accessible by state. U.S. States Labor Market Information
Searchable union database; includes the Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA) and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Union Online
Data on salaries and compensation; includes salary survey on-line. WAGWEB
Data for 1992-1996 from National Crime Victimization Survey estimating U.S. workplace violence. Workplace Crime
Resources pertaining to workplace violence. Workplace Violence
Government Agencies