> > > culpeper history tour Available free at the Visitor's Center are several self-guided tour brochures which allow you to discover the history and beauty of Culpeper at your own pace. divides the Town of Culpeper into four tours including the central business district and adjacent residential neighborhoods, and highlights the numerous historical homes, churches, and other sites along the way. is a self-guided driving tour of the four major Civil War battles fought in Culpeper County - Cedar Mountain, Kelly's Ford, Brandy Station, and Culpeper Courthouse. This unique brochure features detailed driving directions, battlefield and historical marker information, as well as interesting historical and human interest stories of the day. You can go at your own pace, while revisiting what was the geographic center between the Union and the Confederacy. Starting at the Visitors Center, one can learn about the Battle of Culpeper Courthouse by simply walking to the Civil War Trails Marker just outside the Depot. Imagine the heroic march through town, and the trains carrying food and supplies to both armies that once occupied Culpeper. Narrated walking tours are conducted by . Retrace the steps of history with her, and learn about many exciting and historic points of interest. The features interactive displays beginning with pre-historic time, when dinosaurs roamed the earth - right here in Culpeper! Learn about Culpeper's Native American history and view the Indian artifacts on display. Discover the history of the Culpeper Minutemen and the significant part they played in our country's Revolutionary history. The Museum offers a large variety of exhibits featuring Culpeper's rich Civil War history, followed by the Reconstruction and on to the present day. Throughout the area, you will see markers which call your attention to areas of historical significance. The black and white markers are presented by the Virginia Department of Transportation, and the red, white, and blue markers indicate the Civil War Trails historical sites. These markers offer travelers important information and an added dimension to any Culpeper historical tour. For more information on Culpeper's historical markers, visit , and . home what to see & do day trips & diversions