Get the Most Realistic GMAT Preparation with Kaplan
Set Location
Enter your Zip/Postal Code or City, State to view course and other information for your area.
Zip/Postal Code or City, State:*
Enter your Zip/Postal Code or City, State to view program options in your area.
Zip/Postal Code or City, State:*
Sign In Forgot Your Password?
Don't have a Kaptest.com account? Join Now
It's a great time to go to business school—recruiting and starting salaries continue to climb for MBA graduates. But the competition is intense, so it's important that you have an outstanding application package, including a top GMAT score, to gain acceptance at the business school of your choice. Thorough preparation is essential on a computer-adaptive exam like the GMAT, and Kaplan offers a variety of different GMAT preparation programs to help you get the high score you want.
Why should you choose Kaplan?
Kaplan offers the most realistic, most personalized GMAT prep, to help you get the results you want. No one prepares you better for Test Day and for acceptance into the top business schools. 
The Most Realistic Prep
Only Kaplan offers the , a practice exam at a real testing center. Ultimate Practice Test
Practice with 9 full-length computer adaptive practice tests, extensive online resources, over 3000 realistic GMAT questions exclusive to Kaplan, and GMAC's with retired GMAT questions, for realistic practice in-class and out. Official Guide
The Most Personalized Prep
Through our exclusive ™ technology, we provide instant online score analysis and recommendations that ensure you focus on your areas of greatest opportunity, for truly personalized prep. Smart Reports
Our courses include updated content to meet your specific needs, from basic math to advanced material for those targeting 700+. 
Kaplan is the only company that assesses your goals and needs and offers just the right GMAT course for you, whether it be tutoring, Advanced, Math Intensive or another comprehensive prep option.
Proven Results
More people get into business school with a Kaplan GMAT course than any other major course.†
Over 70 years of established test prep research, development, and instruction.
Our expert teachers help you get the most from your course. You will score higher on the GMAT, . guaranteed—or your money back
Start your prep with Kaplan today!