 
The Pre Interview Checklist
Use the of what you need to do the day before your interview. You want to be sure that you are properly prepared and confident of acing the interview.practical interview checklist
Here is a list of what you should put in your portfolio or briefcase
(Remember to clean out your briefcase first, you don't want irrelevant papers flying around when you are trying to retrieve documents from it!)
Full name of company, name and position of contact person/interviewer and contact number
Full address of company and the department or building where your interview is.
Good directions or map. Get these by calling the company, they usually have a standard set of directions they can email you or they can tell you on the phone. You can also obtain a map from an internet map site such as Mapquest or Google Maps. If you are taking public transport have your route prepared.
Details of where you can park
Put in a couple of copies of your resume. Although the company already has a copy you may need to give another copy to the interviewer or interviewers. Take this opportunity to read through your resume again and note any red flags that will have to be dealt with during the interview. Prepare your about gaps in employment, reason for leaving etc. interview answers to tough questions
Include copies of letters of recommendation or written job references you have.
Have copies of your ready, the interviewer will ask for this during the job interview. reference list
Relevant work samples
Pen and paper. Taking a few notes during your interview shows you are listening closely.
Your business card if you have one
The job advert or any details of the position that you have. You may want to refer to this during the interview.
Include your . Review the research that you have put together about the organization and the job and consider how you will use it in your interview. company background research
Put in the . You should prepare at least five insightful questions about the job, the company, and management. Read through these questions and feel confident about asking them. questions you have prepared to ask the interviewer
Once you have prepared your portfolio, you have a couple of hours to do the following on your interview checklist:
Take out the to the interview. Make sure they are clean and pressed. Shoes should be polished. Select the accessories you want to wear. Lay your outfit out ready for the next day. clothes you plan to wear
Go through your prepared answers to such as , , . common job interview questions What are your strengths?Why are you the right candidate for this job?Tell me about yourself?
If you are going to be asked , consider your possible responses. The objective now is not to memorize your answers but to review them and be familiar and confident with them. behavioral questions
Try to practice your responses out loud. Ask a friend or family member to do a mock interview with you. Ask for feedback on other elements such as , communication skills and clarity of your answers. your body language
Make sure you have something nutritious to eat for breakfast the next day, you don't want your stomach rumbling or to feel hungry during your interview.
Get a good night's sleep knowing you are fully prepared to ace the interview!
   Related Articles
Why Bad Interviews Happen and How to Fix It
This handy is a sure way of knowing that you have done everything you need to win in your job interview.interview checklist
Prepare for your job interview by viewing the , including interview questions and answers for management, sales and customer service, call center, accountancy, retail, help desk and project management positions. specific job interview guides