Children and young people and mental health
Glossary of Mental Health Concerns 
Listed below are a number of good general sources for information about mental health disorders, specific conditions and emotional problems and a list of commonly encountered mental health issues linked with helpful websites.
 The Mental Health Foundation The Mental Health Foundation is a UK charity working in the field of mental health. They undertake research, develop services, design training, and aim to raise public awareness about mental health. This link will take you to their glossary of informative factsheets on a broad range of mental health issues.
 Mind Mind is a mental health charity in England and Wales which produce factsheets and booklets for professionals, users, and carers.
 The National Electronic Library of Health The National Electronic Library of Health provides a list of mental health concerns, together with information on description, diagnosis, management, and further reading.
 The Royal College of Psychiatrists The Royal College of Psychiatrists also produce information for parents and professionals.
 Abuse Information and useful websites concerning physical, emotional, and sexual abuse.
 ADHD Useful information and websites relating to Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder.
 
Alcohol and Drug Use Useful information and websites relating to alcohol, drug use, and substance misuse.
 Anxiety and Phobias Useful information and websites relating to anxiety and phobias.
 Autism / Asperger Syndrome Useful information and websites relating to autism and Asperger Syndrome.
 Bereavement Useful information and websites relating to bereavement.
 Bullying Useful information and links relating to bullying.
 Conduct Disorder / Behaviour Problems Useful information and websites relating to conduct disorder and behavioural problems.
 Depression Useful information and websites relating to depression.
 Eating Disorders Information and useful websites on anorexia, bulimia and other eating disorders.
 Gender Identity Disorders Information and useful websites concerning gender identity disorders.
 Learning Disabilities Information and useful websites regarding learning disabilities and mental health.
 Obsessive Compulsive Disorder Information and useful websites concerning Obsessive Compulsive Disorder.
 Post Traumatic Stress / Trauma Information and useful websites concerning Post Traumatic Stress Disorder.
 Psychoses / Schizophrenia / Severe Mental Illness Information and useful websites concerning schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, psychoses and other severe mental illnesses.
 Self-Harm Information and useful websites concerning deliberate self-harm.
© Devon Primary Care Trust NHS