part 22
This problem is further compounded today, because Americans are literally inundated with advertisements from vitamin manufacturers telling them they need to take iron supplements. What's more, many doctors tell patients they are suffering from "iron poor blood" and need to ingest supplemental iron tablets. In reality, what most Americans need to do is increase their bodily levels of lactoferrin, so that the iron from the foods they eat --- --- is more thoroughly assimilated.which is more than adequate for the human system
In fact, as Dr. Peter Rothschild points out in his recently published research report on the Biology of Lactoferrin, "Of the 750 million people on this planet who suffer from iron deficiency symptoms, less than half of them suffer from any actual lack of iron in their diet." Instead, he explains, their iron deficiency symptoms are due chiefly to metabolic problems (such as those caused by insufficient levels of lactoferrin) that hinder the assimilation of iron from the food they eat, or because of low bio-accessibility of the ingested iron.
Of course, this creates a serious problem when individuals suffering from alleged "iron deficiency" begin taking iron supplements. What happens is that the additional iron being ingested does absolutely nothing to alleviate the iron deficiency symptoms, because it, too, remains unassimilated by the body. As a result, the body becomes inundated with iron that it simply cannot assimilate and utilize.
Worse yet, that excess iron soon begins to support the growth of infectious agents throughout the human body, due to the fact that harmful bacteria, yeasts, viruses and other parasites have a continuous metabolic need for iron, and tend to thrive in an iron-rich environment!
On the other hand, when iron is carried through the body by lactoferrin, as it is meant to be, greater than 95% of it is assimilable. The lactoferrin carries the iron directly to the specific receptor sites in the body where iron is meant to be absorbed and utilized. And because it is attached to lactoferrin, the iron cannot be absorbed and utilized by the bacteria, viruses, yeasts and other harmful parasites that require it for their metabolism. These harmful organisms are simply unable to capture and utilize iron in the presence of lactoferrin!
What all of this means, according to Dr. Rothschild, is that "one of lactoferrin's primary functions in the human body is to act as a first line of defense against all invading pathogens."
In short, lactoferrin not only makes the iron we absorb from food readily assimilable by the human body (thereby eliminating iron-deficiency symptoms), it also deprives infectious organisms of this crucial element needed for their survival and growth. In a sense, it harmful organisms in the human body by depriving them of iron, thus short-circuiting their metabolic functions!starves to death
As mentioned earlier, Dr. Rothschild's research has shown that the SBO's in EarthFlora produce lactoferrin in the human body as a result of their own metabolism. So by taking EarthFlora regularly, your body will be far better able to absorb, assimilate and utilize the iron supplied by the food you eat. Iron supplements should become completely unnecessary, once your body begins taking advantage of the increased levels of lactoferrin supplied by the EarthFlora.
More importantly, the lactoferrin produced by the SBO's in EarthFlora will capture and bind the iron in your body so that harmful bacteria, viruses, yeast and other invaders cannot utilize it in their own metabolism. As a direct result, these pathogenic organisms can be stopped dead in their tracks before having a chance to cause infection in your body.
These statements have not been evaluated by the Food and Drug Administration. Our products are not intended to diagnose, treat, cure, or prevent any disease.
Copyright 1997-2008 Sacred Mountain Management, Inc. | | |