 
Cervical Cancer Facts and Stats
Cervical cancer forms in tissues of the cervix. Since there are usually no early symptoms, regular Pap tests are essential for early detection. Pap tests are also important for detecting cervical abnormalities before they become cancerous. Most invasive cervical cancers (between 60% and 80%) are found in women who have not had a Pap test within the past 5 years.
Key Statistics:
In 2007, an estimated 11,150 new cases of invasive cervical cancer will be diagnosed in the United States.  
An estimated 3,670 U.S. women will die from the disease.  
Half of all women diagnosed with cervical cancer are between the ages of 35 and 55. Slightly over 20% are older than 65. Cervical cancer among women younger than 20 is relatively rare.  
Hispanic women have twice the rate of cervical cancer compared to non-Hispanic white women. African-American women develop cervical cancer 50% more often than non-Hispanic white women.    
Over the past 50 years, the number of cervical cancer deaths in the United States has dropped by 74%. The death rate continues to decline by nearly 4% a year. The main reason is the increased use of screening with Pap tests.    
When detected at its earliest stage, cervical cancer has a 5-year survival rate of 92%. The 5-year survival rate for all stages combined is about 72%. The prognosis is markedly affected by the extent of disease at the time of diagnosis.
Risk Factors and Prevention: 
The most important risk factor for cervical cancer is infection by the human papillomavarius (HPV). However, most women infected with HPV do not develop cervical cancer. Additional risk factors appear to influence which infected women are more likely to develop the disease.    
Certain types of sexual behavior increase a woman's risk of getting HPV; namely, sex at an early age, having many sexual partners, having a partner who has had many sexual partners, and having sex with uncircumcised males.
Currently, one vaccine is FDA-approved for use against HPV types 6, 11, 16, and 18. (Approximately 100 HPV types have been identified.) The vaccine protects against roughly 70% of all cancer-causing types of HPV.     
Vaccination is not a substitute for routine screening with Pap tests. Even in women who have been vaccinated, cervical cancer is still possible.    
In addition to HPV infection, risk factors for cervical cancer include cigarette smoking, weakened immune system, use of oral contraceptives, and multiple pregnancies. Diets low in fruits and vegetables may also increase risk.      
Nearly all cervical cancer can be prevented with routine Pap tests and by avoiding risk factors.
References:
American Cancer Society. Detailed Guide: Cervical Cancer. Retrieved April 3, 2007 from American Cancer Society web site at: http://www.cancer.org/docroot/CRI/CRI_2_3x.asp?dt=8
National Cancer Institute. Cervical Cancer. Retrieved April 4, 2007 from National Cancer Institute web site at: