Move Orbital Debris?
Scientific Investigation of the Universe I am interested in how scientifically-accepted conclusions are drawn from the extremely limited knowledge that can be gathered by our current science capabilities. My concern is that as we assume that the entire Universe behaves the same as the part that we can perceive, detect, or view, we limit or destroy furthur investigation and theory of science. If I lived on a grain of sand in a large desert on Earth and could see and/or travel only as far as thirty grains in any direction, it would be a shame for me to conclude that all of the Universe is similar to my surroundings.
Our knowledge of the Universe is admittedly limited, but the scientific method works by taking what observations we have, making theories, and then testing them. In the testing, we learn a little more about the Universe -- whether the theory was right or wrong. I like to think of the Universe as an enormous puzzle, and scientists are trying to put the pieces together. We don't have all the pieces, and don't know where all the pieces we have fit into the puzzle.
This may limit furthur investigation in areas that conflict with our scientific knowledge (like pseudoscience, such as astrology and ESP), but until there are repeatable and measurable results from those fields, most scientists correctly ignore them.
How can we make any conclusions about what is beyond our observation? On that hypothetical grain of sand, understanding the physics of that limited area may help us to see or travel furthur, so we can find out more about the larger Universe.
Dr. Eric Christian
Getting a New Theory Published The people I have spoken to at the local University do not fully understand what I am trying to say. If you could help with other places to send my theories then I would be most grateful.
Do what we all do - write down your theory and send it to any of the various scientific journals. Their job is to peer review new work.exactly
We respect your work and interest, but as scientists (and as scientists supported by taxpayers), we have to be conservative in accepting novel views, sometimes to the detriment and progress of science; you see, we have to accept new theories only when absolutely forced upon us. Until then, we work within the framework of the old theories, tinkering with them to try fit them to the existing body of evidence presented by the observations. It is true that progress is slower this way, but it is more certain. On rare occassions, a "revolution" may occur, but they are truly extraordinary. Until you can point to an observation that your theory explains and that the scientific community hasn't explained, you haven't made any progress.
You might also look at the . Imagine the Universe! answer about getting a new theory published
(June 2000)Drs. Louis Barbier and Eric Christian
Looking for Scientific Collaboration I don't have any formal education in this field but I need a real physicist to collaborate with to develop my ideas. Can you recommend anyone?
A PhD is required to be taken seriously in this field. It also gives you contacts on whom you can try out your ideas. Go to school and learn as much as you can!
Dr. Louis Barbier and Beth Barbier
Helping NASA I'm not formally trained in this field of science/physics/engineering/etc., but I have an idea on how to solve a problem for NASA...
It's wonderful that you are interested in NASA's work, and we hope that our site helps to further that interest. But please remember that, while NASA isn't perfect, it is full of highly educated and experienced people with very difficult, complex jobs. To design and build a spacecraft, for example, one must consider many constraints -- money, weight, time, environmental conditions, etc.
If you are interested in pursuing a career to work for NASA, consider directing your education toward science, math, physics, or engineering.
Beth Barbier and Dr. Eric Christian
Real-time Imagery and Other Online Fun Can you suggest some websites with real-time satellite imagery and other amazing topics about space for my 8-year-old son?
I did a Google search for [satellite imagery earth "real time"], which returned 1.5 million sites. Looking through the first page, there are several that look promising:
Google Earth
I can also recommend another site that your son may find appealing, though it doesn't have real-time imagery. is designed for students under age 14. StarChild
I can also suggest that you check the list of on our site, especially the specific science topics, spacecraft, and space pictures sections. You might find something there that interests him. links
And there's always the very popular . Astronomy Picture of the Day
I hope your son will find something in this list that draws him in.
(October 2005)Beth Barbier
Astrophysics We are trying to locate information tying physics with astronomy through the internet, using NASA as our research tool. Can you help?
These NASA Web-based learning centers are a good place to start:
Imagine the Universe!
Dr. Eric Christian
Astrophysics as a Career Could you tell me, in terms that a freshman in high school could understand, what an astrophysicist is and what an astrophysicist does?
On this site, you can check out the , and there's a at the site. You can also see . Drs. Christian and Barbier are cosmic ray astrophysicists at NASA GSFC. interview with Dr. Louis Barbier biography of Dr. Eric Christian Imagine the Universe! Dr. Christian's home page
You can find more information about careers in astronomy and astrophysics on the site. Imagine the Universe!
Ms. Beth Barbier
What Do Astrophysicists Do Each Day? I have been researching the career of an astrophysicist. I think I understand the science, but what do astrophysicists really do each day?
You can find out what scientists do at the NASA Goddard Space Flight Center's Astrophysics Science Division by reading through the at our sister site, Featured Scientist biographies Imagine the Universe!
(April 2004)Beth Barbier
How Do You Figure Things Out? How do you figure things out? Is astrophysics research straightforward and logical? Do you just apply equations and models to a situation and work out the answers?
In a word, "No." However, isn't this the way we all learn and find new ideas? I find there is nothing harder to teach a student of science than to encourage them to associate what they know with what they don't in an effort to find new understanding insights. The pursuit of science is so far from a linear and orderly progression that I sometimes worry that textbooks knock all the creativity and curiosity from young people.
In fact, I have a student working with me on a hard project and we have gone down so many blind alleys as we work to the finish that I am surprised he has stayed with me. I was discussing this with a colleague also working on the project and we agreed that the best thing a student can learn from a professor is that we are also learning and making mistakes. As she said, "Then I guess he's learned a lot from us!" and she's right.
Remember, the best thing I can teach you is that we are all students, and I make a lot of mistakes.
(January 2006)Dr. Charles Smith
Astrophysics Internships I am an undergrad student with a major in physics and math and a minor in astronomy. My ultimate goal is to be an astrophysicist, and I am looking for an internship for this summer that would have me working with an astrophysicist. Would you have any information for me?
It is a great idea to try to get experience doing "hands-on" research during the summer. There are a number of programs offering summer internships both here at Goddard and also at various universities. Here are a few that you might want to look up:
You might want to discuss your options for research with faculty at your university as well.
(November 2002)Dr. Georgia de Nolfo
Open Problems in Physics Can you tell me an open problem in physics that is in your area of expertise?
We are almost always working on several "open" problems at the same time, as there are always interesting and intriguing observations and paradoxes that have not been satisfactorily dealt with. Our research work consists of finding those problems that have the right combination of interest and importance and to the solution of which we can make a significant contribution.
One that is at the top of the list in my group right now is the puzzle of the termination shock of the solar wind. There is a controversy over observations from the Voyager 1 spacecraft at some 90 from the sun. One experimental group believes that the data indicate that the shock has been crossed, which would be a major milestone, but other experimental groups disagree. We are attempting to make a consistent physical picture of what is going on. See from November 2003. AU this NASA press release
A non-technical overview of this, , was published in the British journal Physics World in January of 2004. It's a bit later than the NASA release and hence more up-to-date, and also perhaps adds a bit more perspective. "Voyager goes close to the edge"
(September 2004)Dr. J.R. Jokipii
You might want to start looking for ideas on the . American Physical Society's "Careers in Physics" page
(May 2001)Dr. Louis Barbier and Ms. Beth Barbier
Astronomy as a Career I am a freshman in high school and am interested in astronomy, preferably radio astronomy. What courses are recommended and required for me to get a degree in this field?
In high school, physics, math, and computer programming are all useful. I personally also found that the high school typing class I took was well worth it. At the undergraduate level, again physics, math, computers, and astronomy. Most specialization (radio astronomy, for example) is done in graduate school, but if you pick an undergraduate school that has an active radio astronomy program, you can likely pick up useful work-study experience. For more information, you can look at the web site. Imagine the Universe!
Dr. Eric Christian
Teaching Science I am looking for more information on teaching science to young students...
This is well beyond our area of expertise. You might see if you can talk to an informal educator at a local science museum or planetarium. They generally have a fair amount of experience with presentations to this age group.
(October 2003)Beth Barbier
Astronomy and Spherical Trigonometry I am currently enrolled in a Trigonometry Analysis class, and my teacher has asked my class to research careers or professions that are related to trigonometry. I researched this and discovered that astromomy uses a specialized trigonometry called spherical trigonometry. What is spherical trigonometry, and how is it used in astronomy?
Quite simply, spherical trigonometry is the study of triangles on a spherical surface - that is, the relationship among the arc lengths, and the spherical angles between the arcs. If the size of the triangle (its area) is small compared to the area of the sphere, then spherical trigonometry will reduce to plane trigonometry.
In astronomy, one must use spherical trigonometry to determine the positions of the stars (or other objects) and their relationships to one another.
(March 2002)Dr. Louis Barbier
Visits from Astronauts How can I get an astronaut to visit my school? I am prepared to write a grant or do whatever it takes. The students love to learn about space.
You will want to contact the . The only cost is for the expenses associated with the appearance (transportation, accomodations, meals, etc.), but it looks like the competition is stiff for the astronauts' time. Astronaut Appearances Offices
There are other types of speakers you might have a better chance of obtaining - check out the . I hope you are able to find someone to meet your needs. NASA Speakers Bureau
(April 2005)Beth Barbier
Careers at NASA What are the qualifications one must have to obtain a position at NASA? What kind of careers does NASA offer?
The web site covers your question. NASA Jobs
Beth Barbier
Interviews with Astrophysicists My class is currently doing research on astrophysics as a career. Could I do an interview with one of the astrophysicists on this site? I am wondering about the education required to become a physicist, the income, and what it's like to work in the field.
Unfortunately, we do not have time to answer the many interview requests that we receive. You might want to read the . Many of your questions are answered there. interview with Dr. Louis Barbier
(February 2003)Beth Barbier
What is Dr. Christian's Current Work? What project are you currently working on? What math is involved with this project? What is your favorite math?
I'm currently working on several different projects, all at different stages of development. One of the main projects is the , which is a small spacecraft that is currently 1 million miles from the Earth measuring particles from the Sun, interstellar space, and the Galaxy. Math is required at nearly every step of the process, from designing, building, testing, launching, and analyzing the data. Mostly it's algebra (solving several equations for un known quantities) or calculus (differential equations). I don't really have a "favorite" math, I consider math to be a tool and use whatever math is needed. Advanced Composition Explorer (ACE)
The best place to start would be on . his own home page
(December 2000)Beth Barbier
Go For It! Ever since I was a child I have wanted to be a scientist. I am now in my 20s. I have a burning desire to go to college and study physics. People tell me that I am crazy and too old to start studying a science like physics. I tell them that it is not to late for me because I have the passion and dedication to become a physicist. Unfortunately, I fooled around in high school and did not get the best of grades. It is not that I was not capable of achieving high marks, it was a lack of motivation. Now that I am older, I have a better understanding of things. I now know that all the motivation I need is inside of me, and I am ready to do this. I have decided to return to college and go for it! I wanted to get an opinion from a professional scientist and any advice or suggestions you may have. It would be greatly appreciated.
You are not too old to start college and become a physicist. But it is not going to be easy. You'll probably need nine or ten years of university (4 to get a bachelors degree and at least five more to get a PhD), during which time you won't be earning very much. My suggestion is to find a college that will accept you, and then transfer to a better college after a few years if the first is not good enough (especially in Physics). Once you get your bachelors degree, your high school grades are irrelavant. Good luck!
Dr. Eric Christian
Websites about Space Topics Can you recommend some website about amazing topics in space, appropriate for my eight-year-old son?
The website is designed for students under age 14. I can also suggest that you check the on ACE's Cosmicopia website, especially the specific science topics, spacecraft, and space pictures sections. You might find something there that interests him. And of course, there's always the very popular . I hope your son will find something in this list that draws him in. StarChild list of links Astronomy Picture of the Day
(October 2005)Beth Barbier
ACE for Elementary Grades I am a K-6 classroom teacher and am interested in obtaining information about the Advanced Composition Explorer (ACE) and any resources I could use in the classroom to motivate students to learn about space.
ACE has worked with teachers to develop web-based education briefs and classroom activities based on ACE science. You can find several of these , with at least one aimed at grades 5-8. ACE hasn't developed educational materials for earlier grades due the complexity of the subject -- once you break things down to a 1st grade level, it doesn't matter whether it's based on ACE science or SOHO science, for example. Those at this URL were composed last year. on our "Great Links" page
For more activities aimed at elementary students, though not about ACE science, you might want to check out site. StarChild
You might find , based on ACE and other cosmic ray mission science, helpful as well. Though this site is aimed at a middle and high school level, it might be helpful to you for background material, and there are several individual features that you might be able to use in some of your classes. Our most popular feature is the . Send in your questions on ACE, and any other subjects in our area of expertise, and we will be happy to answer them. Cosmicopia "Ask Us" service
Other features of Cosmicopia you might use include the , the page, and the page (very big in the news right now, and very understandable for elementary students). All of our subject pages, such as the space weather page, have links to related educational activities and web news articles. glossary history space weather
Of course, you can always check out the . ACE Project Page
We'd love to hear any suggestions you have about how to improve the ACE-developed activities and web sites, once you've taken advantage of them.
Beth Barbier
Space Camp I am a high school student who is interested in astronomy, and for the summer, I wanted to go to a space/science/or astronomy camp, and I was interested in space camp, but the cost was outrageous. Do you know of any reasonable camps for students, age 14, who live in Chicago?
Space Camp is available in Alabama, California, and Florida. They have a . You can also check out the web page, or check with your school guidance counselor, county or state school board, or local university to see if any programs there might meet your needs and budget. Best of luck to you! web site NASA Education Program
Beth Barbier
Seeing the Earth from Space Can you point me toward a website that has real-time satellite imagery, so I can show my son what the Earth looks like from space?
I did a Google search for [satellite imagery earth "real time"], which returned 1.5 million sites. Looking through the first page, there are several that look promising:
Google Earth
(October 2005)Beth Barbier
Why Can I See Stars but Not Planets? The planets are nearer to Earth than most of the stars, so how is it that we can see the stars so brightly, but can barely see the planets with the naked eye? Does it have to do with their compositions?
Jupiter, Saturn, and Venus are all brighter than almost all the stars you can see (except for the Sun), and Mercury and Mars are both easily visible with the naked eye. But there is an inherent difference between stars and planets that make stars visible across the many light years of space. Stars glow with their own light, while planets only reflect the light coming from their star. Nuclear fire (fusion) makes stars extremely hot and bright. That's what makes them stars instead of just large planets.
An analogy is a match in a dark room. You can easily see the lit match anywhere in the room, but in order to read, you need to have both the match (to supply the light) and what you're reading very close. You read by seeing reflected light.
(June 2000)Dr. Eric Christian
Nighttime Sightings I was wondering about a light that has appeared in the sky over the last few nights. I usually see it in the early evening, tracking from south to north at a moderate rate of speed. As it approaches the northern edge of the skyline, the light appears to dim. What could this be?
There are lots of satellites in orbit that are easy to see just after sunset (they are still in sunlight even though the sky is dark). These may well be what you're seeing.
(April 2002)Dr. Eric Christian
Building a Telescope Where could I find detailed information on how to build a powerful telescope?
A good library should have books on amateur astronomy that will show you how to build your own telescope. It is far too extensive a subject to cover in any web page that I know of.
Dr. Eric Christian
In my physics class, we want to construct a large telescope out of an old satellite dish. We want to put many small mirrors on the satellite dish to make a lens. Will the small mirrors cause the light waves to cancel each other out and ruin the clarity of our image? Do you have any suggestions on how we should do this?
An interesting idea. There are a few multi-mirror research-grade telescopes in existence, such as the Keck and Hobby-Eberly telescopes. The mirror segments in these scopes are formed to very high tolerances both in terms of surface smoothness and radius of curvature. Your job is complicated by the need to have curved mirror surfaces all focusing at the exact same focal plane. A number of flat mirrors placed on your satellite dish will approximate a spherical or, more likely, a parabolic shape but will likely not have the needed accurately curved surface. Remember, in a single mirror telescope, the surface is figured to less than 1/4 wavelength of red light (also called "quarter wave surface accuracy"). Additionally, radio telescopes generally have fairly low focal ratios. This makes the requirements for mirror figuring even more stringent.
Radio telescopes operate just fine with rough, mesh surfaces because the wavelengths of light they are sensitive to are relatively long. Optical telescopes, sensitive to much shorter wavelengths, require much higher tolerances. So I am afraid it would be difficult for you to build a sufficiently accurate composite surface. However, have you thought of trying to renovate this dish as a radio telescope? There are, I believe, commercial kits that provide detectors sensitive to 21 cm hydrogen emission. Check ads (in the back of the magazine).Sky and Telescope
(April 2002)Dr. Lou Mayo, Planetary Scientist and "Guest Answerer" forCosmicopia
Fly into Space with Airplane? Why can't we just fly into space with an airplane?
Airplanes need air in order to keep from falling. Flying requires the atmosphere to generate lift (there is more force on the bottom of a wing than on the top). But as you get higher, the atmosphere gets thinner and the lift decreases. You can compensate by going faster, but at some point the drag of the wings (the friction between the wings and the atmosphere) is worse than the lift they generate, at which point it's better to just "rocket" your way out of the atmosphere.
Most of the distance between the Earth and the Moon has no air. A rocket will work even in space. There have been suggestions to build a combination of airplane and rocket, which would fly like a plane to the edge of the atmosphere (the area of air around the Earth) and then would use rockets to go the rest of the way to the Moon. But it hasn't been done yet.
(July 2001)Dr. Eric Christian
Supersonic Airplane in Space? Why don't we use jets that travel faster than the speed of sound for space travel? With no air to hold it back, the speed of sound should be much faster in space than it is here on Earth.
Sound waves are formed when a medium (like air or water) is compressed, and the speed of sound depends on what medium it is traveling through. Interplanetary space isn't a perfect vacuum - it is composed of tiny dust particles, solar wind particles (mostly electrons and protons), and cosmic rays. Near Earth's orbit, there are about five atoms per cubic centimeter in interplanetary space - compare this to the density on Earth's surface, which is 10 atoms per cubic centimeter (that's a 1 followed by 19 zeros!). Technically speaking, sound waves can exist in outer space since it isn't a perfect vacuum, although the frequencies are far too low for human ears to hear them (so if you have ever seen a sci-fi movie where spacecraft explodes with a loud boom, that is inaccurate!).19
You are correct that the speed of sound is much larger in space than on Earth. On Earth, the speed of sound is about 740 miles per hour, or mph, at sea level, while in interplanetary space it is roughly 900,000 mph near Earth's orbit. Spacecraft generally travel much slower than the speed of sound in space. For example, the Cassini spacecraft that traveled to Saturn sped along "only" at about 11,700 mph.
The main problem with using a supersonic jet to travel in space is that jets and other aircraft used on Earth are not designed for space travel. A jet provides thrust by taking in surrounding air molecules in the atmosphere, passing them through its engine, and expelling the air at high speeds. In space, the density of gas is far too low for intake, and jet engines would not be able to provide thrust. On the other hand, a simple rocket engine provides thrust by burning fuel to create and accelerate high-pressure gas to a high velocity, which is then ejected. By Newton's 3rd Law of Motion, every action has an equal and opposite reaction, so the rocket moves in the opposite direction of the ejected gas. These engines do not need surrounding air to provide thrust like jet engines do.
(February 2007)Dr. Nick Sterling
Rocket Design Where can I find information about rocket design on the WWW?
Your question is beyond our area of expertise, but you might want to check out . JPL's Basics of Space Flight
Beth Barbier
Effects of Charging on a Spacecraft Because of solar wind and other cosmic radiation, a spacecraft must always be charged, depending on the flux and type of radiation. How does this affect people and equipment inside?
The sun is a source of harmful ultraviolet (UV) radiation and high-energy charged particles (such as electrons and protons, in the solar wind). High-energy cosmic ray particles are also potentially harmful to humans. Earth's atmosphere and magnetic field block or deflect the worst of this from us on Earth, but it is a different story for spacecraft and astronauts.
UV radiation is not so dangerous for space travel, since spacesuits and spacecraft carrying humans are designed to block harmful radiation. It is the high-energy particles from the solar wind that can wreak havoc. The danger from these particles is usually not serious unless the spacecraft is caught in a solar storm (such as a coronal mass ejection), when the intensity of charged particles (and radiation dosage) are higher than normal.
As you surmised, electrical charging of spacecraft is one of the effects that can be caused by the sun's radiation or solar wind. Differential charging occurs when sunlight or charged particles cause different parts of the surface of a spacecraft to occur and can cause damage to electrical components. Bulk charging can occur when high-energy particles (mostly electrons) penetrate the surface of the spacecraft and charge the interior of the spacecraft. This again can lead to electrical discharge that is harmful to electrical components.
The effects of high-energy particles on humans is worse. High-energy electrons or protons lead to chromosome damage and cancer. If the radiation dosage is high enough, radiation sickness or death can occur.
Now for the good news. Spacecraft charging has been well-studied, and spacecraft are designed to mitigate differential and bulk charging effects. Moreover, aside from the Apollo flights to the moon, astronauts have not in general received dangerous exposure to solar wind particles. This is because spacecraft such as the International Space Station are within the protective shield of the Earth's magnetic field.
On the other hand, a manned flight to Mars could pose greater risks. Since coronal mass ejections can be detected by the light that they emit before the high-energy particles reach the spacecraft, this gives astronauts time to take protective measures. For example, they could take cover in a "storm shelter" at the center of the ship, surrounded by vats of water that shield the worst of the solar wind particles. Astronauts also routinely carry dosimeters with them, indicating the level of radiation to which they are exposed.
(May 2007)Dr. Nick Sterling
Spacecraft Coordinate Systems To describe the position of an aircraft, for example, we use latitude, longitude, and altitude (Cartesian system) or bearing from a station, distance and altitude (cylindrical coordinate system). What sort of system is used to fix a spacecraft's position between the Earth and the Moon?
This is not our area of expertise, but please see this for a description that will answer your question. NASA GSFC NSSDC web page
(July 2000)Dr. Louis Barbier
Keeping a Rocket in Place in Orbit We know that everything on the equator rotates with a speed of 1000 km/hour relative to everything that rests on the poles. Suppose that we have a rocket that can float a steady 100 m above the same point on the equator. What would happen to the rocket?
There is no orbit that stays 100 m above the same point on the equator. If you lifted a rocket up, it would fall back down. Because of the 1000 km/hour sideways motion, the rocket would come down at the same place it took off from, although both the rocket and the ground would have moved. Stable orbits 100 m up need to orbit the Earth in less than 90 minutes, so you would need to rocket off in some direction at an even higher speed. Orbits usually go in the direction the Earth is spinning so that you start off with 1000 km/hour that you don't need rocket fuel for. At that height (100 m), the air resistance would cause your orbit to decay pretty quickly, and besides, you would probably hit something before you got once around.
(May 2001)Dr. Eric Christian
Rocket Propulsion My understanding of propulsion is that the force of the rocket blast against the atmosphere is why it moves. How does this work in space where there is nothing to push against?
This is a common misconception. In reality, the rocket blast doesn't need anything to push against. The blast is accelerated in one direction, and, since every force has an equal and opposite force, the rocket is accelerated in the other direction. It works in space just fine.
(January 2002)Dr. Eric Christian
When a rocket is fired in space, what does the thrust push against? I've been wondering about this for years!
Rockets don't need to push against anything, so they work both in the atmosphere and in space. The rocket exhaust shoots out the back at high velocity, and in order to conserve momentum, the rocket accelerates in the other direction. This has a couple of major consequences for spaceflight. One is that the efficiency of a rocket is determined by the velocity of its exhaust, and it's very hard to get it faster with chemical rockets (which is why new rockets aren't much more efficient than the first generation rockets). The other consequence is that you need to use up a lot of mass of rocket fuel (going into exhaust), which is why rockets to orbit have to be so big.
(November 2002)Dr. Eric Christian
Rocket Launch What is the white material that falls from a rocket during takeoff? Is this ice?
Yes, the falling white material is ice. Some of the fuel used (liguid oxygen and liquid hydrogen) is kept very cold and in the moist Florida atmosphere, ice condenses on the outside of the rocket and falls off at launch. It is expected and doesn't do any harm.
(Febuary 2002)Dr. Eric Christian
Satellite Crashes? On "The West Wing," I heard that since we first started launching satellites into space, 17,000 have crashed back into our atmosphere (about 1 every 10 days). Is this true?
This is well outside our area of expertise, but there is a on the NASA Orbital Debris Program Office website. History of On-Orbit Satellite Fragmentations
(May 2005)Beth Barbier
Geosynchronous Satellite What is a geosynchronous satellite?
A geosynchronous satellite is one that goes around the Earth exactly once per day. If its orbit is over the equator, it will appear to be in the same spot in the sky all the time, which makes it easy to point antennas at it. The time a satellite takes to orbit the Earth depends upon its altitude, and so all geosynchronous orbits are at 35,786 km. Arthur C. Clarke (a famous science fiction author) is credited with being the first one to figure out this orbit.
(June 2001)Dr. Eric Christian
What Keeps the Shuttle Up? What keeps a shuttle in orbit around the Earth?
The detailed answer to your question is beyond our area of expertise, but you might want to check out on what keeps objects in orbit. this site at NASA GRC
(March 2000)Beth Barbier
Earth's gravity must still have a large magnitude at the altitude of shuttle flights. How do they stay up there, and why are they weightless?
You are correct the Earth's gravity is still quite strong, so calling it "zero gravity" is incorrect (although it's frequently used). The reason the shuttle stays up there is because it has enough velocity to be in orbit around the Earth. In an orbit, you are always falling towards the Earth, but your velocity makes sure you never actually hit the Earth. When an object is freely falling (no resistance due to atmosphere or whatever), it is "weightless" or in "free fall".
(October 2000)Dr. Eric Christian
Why does a spacecraft need to go 17,000 mph to re-enter the Earth's atmosphere? Why can't it just settle (float) slowly back into the atmosphere, such as with the aid of a parachute, or hover? It seems to me that if a craft was able to just settle into the atmosphere there would be very little friction rather than being a 17,000 mph fireball.
A spacecraft needs to be traveling at about 17,000 mph because that's the velocity of everything in a low orbit around the Earth. The large shuttle or rocket engines are needed to get the spacecraft up to that speed in the first place. In order to settle slowly back down, you need to get rid of all of that speed. The two ways of doing that are to use large rocket engines again (using just as much fuel as you used to get up there), or to come in quickly and use the atmosphere to slow you down with friction. It doesn't make sense to use fuel, because you would need even more fuel to get your landing fuel into orbit, so rockets would have to be 10 times bigger and more expensive. It is easier (and much cheaper) to protect against atmospheric friction.
Dr. Eric Christian
How do you increase the inertia when you add more mass to the space station? My teacher said that the amount of gravity holding it in orbit would increase if you added more mass. One of the only ways to prevent it from crashing into Earth would be to increase it's inertia, or speed. How do you increase it's inertia?
The speed that an object is moving determines what orbit it is in. If you add more speed, you would change the orbit. The space shuttle uses fuel to "match orbit" with the International Space Station, or in other words, it accelerates until it is at the same speed as the ISS. Then mass can be moved to, and mounted on, the space station and there is no problem. It's all moving at the same speed and stays in the same orbit. The shuttle then uses more fuel to slow down and fall out of orbit so it can land.
(March 2001)Dr. Eric Christian
Shuttle Propulsion without Oxygen? It is to my understanding that fire requires oxygen to burn. So I am puzzled by fire in space, where there is no oxygen. When the Space Shuttle is maneuvered in space, isn't a rocket blast used, igniting flame at some point?
You are correct that fire requires oxygen, and that there is no oxygen in space. The Shuttle has a very complicated propulsion system, with 3 main engines (used for liftoff), 38 primary reaction control system engines, 6 secondary ("vernier") reaction control system engines, and 2 orbital maneuvering system (OMS) engines. These engines carry their own fuel with them - helium, nitrogen, and other gases are stored and used as needed by the different engines. I suggest you visit these two Web sites for more detailed information on the Space Shuttle:
Orbital Maneuvering System
Dr. Louis Barbier
How to Get Closer to the Sun with a Solar Sail The solar wind blows away from the Sun, and the Earth orbits the Sun at a fairly constant distance. If a spacecraft with a solar sail is launched from the Earth, initially moving with the Earth's velocity (which is much greater than the speed given any spacecraft by the largest rocket), how can the solar sail be used to get to the Sun?From Dr. Charles Smith, prompted by an email from a reader of this site:
closer
A guess from the reader:
In order to sail closer to the Sun, maybe the solar sail could be shaped like an air foil and the craft continuously tack like a boat does?
I had a professor in graduate school raise this question, and all of us who were sailors said the same thing as you. We were all wrong.
A sailboat has a keel, or a centerboard, that keeps it from slipping sideways. If you sail a small boat into the wind and pull the center board, it immediately slips sideways, and forward motion is lost. What is available in interplanetary space for a keel to grab onto?
So you use a solar sail to eliminate angular momentum -- that orbital motion associated with launching a spacecraft from the Earth, with the motion of the Earth imparted to the spacecraft. You tilt the solar sail at an angle to the wind so that it pushes the spacecraft the orbital motion of the Earth, and slowly the spacecraft falls sunward. The spacecraft becomes a falling stone. So much for the romance of sail.against
If you conserve angular momentum and reduce the distance from the spacecraft to the Sun, the orbital speed increases in order to conserve angular momentum. This carries the spacecraft back away from the Sun. In order to move sunward, you need to eliminate angular momentum so you can fall into the Sun.
(January 2005)Dr. Charles Smith
Launch From Undersea? Is it possible to launch this way: Put a shuttle deep under the sea and lock it there, then use airpumps to pump air to some kind of very big tanks. Then you could unlock the shuttle and airtanks, and the airtanks and sea mass would lift the shuttle at a very high speed above the sea. The airtanks would drop off before the shuttle reaches sea level, and rockets could launch the shuttle into space.
The terminal velocity (the fastest speed it could reach) for something as large as a shuttle in water is certainly less than 100 kph, which is small compared to the velocity the shuttle attains. The added complexity for all of the systems required to launch this way makes this system much, much, much less efficient than the current method (a little extra fuel).
Dr. Eric Christian
Ion Propulsion Project? I am thinking of working on a project for a science fair, or something similar, dealing with ion propulsion. I have done some research and am planning on constructing an ion ray gun to use in an ion motor and other experiments.
I would ideally like to construct a craft capable of lifting off the ground with an ion engine instead, but I am under the understanding that the thrust provided by an ion engine is not enough to operate in a normal atmosphere. I don't know if I could even construct an ion engine without xenon gas that would work like I hoped, even in a vacuum. I was contemplating building a vacuum chamber to operate one in, but I have not really done enough research to conclude if that is possible for me either. Could you give me some advice?
I'm glad to hear that you're interested in physics/astrophysics. Ion propulsion is certainly an interesting topic, but I'm afraid its limitations just make it unsuitable for an impressive project here on Earth.
The atmosphere isn't the biggest problem. It's the 1 G of acceleration that we get from the Earth. In order to construct a craft capable of lifting off the ground, you need to generate more than 1 G, and ion engines only accelerate a fraction of that.
And I'm afraid that building a vacuum chamber large enough for testing is quite a task. It would need to withstand the differential pressure of 1 atmosphere, which would be thousands of pounds of force.
I could think of a science fair project that measured the velocity and mass loss of an ion gun and a chemical rocket (the engine for a model rocket, say) and compared the efficiencies.
(June 2008)Dr. Eric Christian
Antimatter Propulsion? Why do people want to use the mutual annihilation of matter/antimatter just to heat up something, which will then be propelled out of a spacecraft? I have read that if we just used the raw energy created from this annihilation it would melt the spacecraft. I think that nuclear fission has more possible applications than just heating things up, too.
If you can store antimatter (presumably in something like a magnetic bottle), then it can make an excellent fuel. It is a BIG step up from chemical burning of fuel, because the efficiency is much, much higher. Most of the mass of chemical fuel is wasted in the propulsion stream, but that is mass that you have to take with you (and also accelerate, which takes more fuel). But you only need a small amount of antimatter to accomplish the same thing. If you are going to use matter/antimatter annihilation, the easiest way to grab the resulting energy is as heat, which is why the ideas for antimatter propulsion are along these lines. If you control the amount of antimatter that is annihilated, you shouldn't have any trouble, but if your entire supply goes up at once (the standard science fiction "breach of the containment field") you would probably lose the ship.
Matter/antimatter annihilation is different than nuclear fission or nuclear fusion, by the way.
Dr. Eric Christian
Warp Drive? If we want to achieve "warp speed propulsion", shouldn't we be looking toward an undiscovered energy source to provide the amount of focused energy that would be required in order to achieve that goal? Personally I think that we should be looking toward the ability of harnessing anti-gravitinos and being able to focus them into a pinpoint stream so that we could create instant propulsion by directing it toward any stellar object that we so choose.
It's the dream of many people to find a faster-than-light method of transportation so that we can travel to the stars. At the current time, the laws of physics, as we understand them, don't allow this. How does one search for an undiscovered energy source? Plus, the amount of energy required appears to be infinite. Anti-gravitinos have not even been discovered, so harnessing them is also beyond us at the current time.
This doesn't mean we should stop dreaming, however. You can see what NASA is investigating along the lines of "Warp Drive" . at this NASA LeRC site
Dr. Eric Christian
Gravity Assist from Black Holes? Could a rocket travelling at its top speed use a black hole to give it a boost toward another black hole, then use the second black hole to give it more of a boost? Could such a craft keep swinging by each black hole to achieve a greater speed each time, possibly reaching NEAR light speed?
This is not as easy as it sounds. As the rocket's velocity increased with each gravity assist, it would get harder and harder to completely change direction so that it would be headed back at the other black hole. You might be able to do it by getting closer to the black hole with each pass (which doesn't sound too different from spiralling in to your death!) Any passengers would probably end up as red goo as your rocket undertakes thousands of G turns around the black hole, and at some point your electronics and rocket would fail as well.
(April 2000)Dr. Eric Christian
Spacecraft Trajectory Where can I find information on calculations that might govern a spacecraft trajectory to and from Mars?
You don't say what grade you're in, and this is a complicated subject. If you are an advanced high school student or a college student, check out the on this subject. University of Wisconson web page
Dr. Louis Barbier
Gravity Assist Is there an equation you could use to calculate gravity assist, where you would enter the values for the planet's velocity, the ship's initial velocity, the angle of ship's approach, etc.?
at the University of Wisconsin might help get you started. The equations you want aren't there, but the information is sufficient to derive the equations. The key to gravity assist is that the spacecraft undergoes a hyperbola in the planet's reference frame (it enters and leaves with the same velocity), but since the planet is moving, you can gain the speed of the planet times some geometrical factors. This web site
Dr. Eric Christian
Flag on the Moon Is the American flag placed on the Moon in 1969 by the astronauts of Apollo 11 still there today?
Yes, the astronauts left the flag there (as well as a bunch of equipment).
(April 2002)Dr. Eric Christian
Footprints on the Moon Would it be possible for Neil Armstrong's footprints to still be on the Moon?
The timescale for erosion (which is only due to micrometeorites and solar wind impact) is millions of years, so the answer is yes. All of the astronauts footprints are still there.
(April 2002)Dr. Eric Christian
Transmissions from the Moon I remember that during the Moon missions, somewhere between the Earth and the Moon, we lost sight, radio, and radar trace of the spaceships for a few minutes. Could this be due to electromagnetic discontinuities in space from which no light rays and no radio transmission can emerge?
The only complete dropouts that I know of were caused by the large discontinuity called the Moon, which visible light, radio, or other electromagnetic waves can't pass through. If there were electromagnetic discontinuities the way you propose, they would be easy to see as completely black patches against the background stars. There is NO evidence of such things.
Dr. Eric Christian
Did We Really Land on the Moon? I was watching a television show that said there are doubts if NASA really landed a man on the Moon. Though I personally believe that we did, is it possible to see any of the items left from the Apollo missions still on the Moon? If telescopes on Earth could get some pictures and display them, maybe fewer people would have doubts!
Your question is beyond our area of expertise or interest, but you can look at from Science@NASA. The Great Moon Hoax
Another site, with point-by-point explanations, is on Phil Plait's . Bad Astronomy
I hope this helps you to understand that NASA land men on the Moon in the 1960s and 1970s.did
(August 2001)Beth Barbier
Astronaut Audio Quality Why is the audio quality, live from space, always so bad? On TV sometimes I can barely make out what the astronauts are saying. Does it have something to do with weightlessness? Budget? S