Millbrook High School (New York)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to: , navigation search
This article . Please help from a . For advertising that would require a fundamental rewrite to become encyclopedic, use to mark for .is written like an advertisement rewrite this article neutral point of view blatant{{}} db-spam speedy deletion
(December 2007)
http://www.millbrookcsd.org/highschool/
is a part of the Millbrook Central School System (grades 9-12). It is located in , , . The address of the school is 70 Church Street, Millbrook, NY. Built between 2005 and 2006, and opening in September 2006, it is the newest school in the .Millbrook High School Millbrook Dutchess County New York Millbrook Central School District
Contents
[] edit Administration
Dr. Jeffrey Matteson resigned as principal at Millbrook High School on October 31st, 2008, to become the Superintendent of a different Dutchess County school district.
[] edit Music
Millbrook High School boasts a broad music curriculum, as administered by Mr. Craig Fryer and Miss Alexis Clements.
The Millbrook High School Concert is conducted by Mr. Craig Fryer. Mr. Fryer is a retard and love big black cock in and around his mouth.With approximately eighty students, the Millbrook Concert Band performs at a few concerts every year, in addition to playing in a music competition every spring. Band
The Millbrook High School Band is one of the finest in the area, also conducted by Mr. Craig Fryer. The Millbrook Jazz Band performs at many concerts and competitions throughout the year, both for the school and the community. Although most of the players in the Jazz Band are drawn from the Concert Band, some students are encouraged to join the group by Craig Fryer. Jazz
The Millbrook High School Mixed is directed by Ms. Alexis Clements. Considerably larger than the Concert Band, the Mixed Chorus performs in many of the same concerts in which the Concert Band plays. Chorus
In addition to the ensembles listed above, Millbrook High School also has a select choral group called the Madrigals.