1,142 officers and enlisted
Armament:
9 x 8 in, 12 x 5 in, 48 x 40 mm, 22 x 20 mm guns
Aircraft:
2 Curtiss SC Sea Hawk
Motto:
"Proud and Fearless"
For other ships of the same name, see . USS Helena
The third , a , was the third ship of the to be named for the city of , . She was named while building after the cancellation of .USS (CA-75)Helena Baltimore-class heavy cruiser United States Navy Helena Montana Helena CL-113
Launched at , on ,, sponsored by Mrs. John T. Haytin, wife of the mayor of Helena; and commissioned , Captain Arthur Howard McCollum in command. Bethlehem Steel Co. Quincy, Massachusetts 28 April 1945 4 September 1945
completed her outfitting in the area and sailed , arriving the next day to take part in the tremendous celebration of the Navy's role in victory that marked Navy Day, . After two shakedown/training periods at , , returned to Boston in February 1945 to prepare for her first deployment, a round-the-world cruise. sailed from Boston for England where Admiral boarded and broke his flag as Commander Naval Forces, Europe, and Commander 12th Fleet. During the next 3 months, conducted training exercises in Northern European waters and paid good-will visits to major ports in and .Helena Boston 24 October 1945 New York City World War II 27 October 1945 Guantanamo Bay Cuba HelenaHelena 12 February 1946 H. Kent Hewitt Helena England Scotland
Relieved as flagship , sailed for the Far East via the , calling at major ports, , , , and arriving . During her tour in the Far East, took part in a wide variety of training exercises and fleet maneuvers until she finally departed for home after more than a year in foreign waters. 1 May 1946 Helena Suez Canal Mediterranean Colombo Ceylon Singapore Tsingtao 18 June 1946 Helena Shanghai 22 March 1947
After training operations in waters departed once more for the Far East , arriving Shanghai 24 days later. Throughout the summer and fall of 1948, she operated primarily in Chinese waters, returning to December 1948. California Helena 3 April 1948 Long Beach
spent much of the spring of 1949 in training a new crew and in May cruised to train Naval Reservists, returning to Long Beach for a conversion necessary to equip her to carry a helicopter. During July and August 1949, took part in a 6-week at sea training cruise for men of the Naval Reserve Officers' Training Corps to the and . She then took part in , a joint Army-Navy amphibious training exercise in the conducted in November.HelenaHelena Galapagos Islands Panama Operation Miki Hawaiian Islands
then proceeded via and to the where she conducted training exercises. She returned to in January 1950, and soon after experienced the highlights of her service as flagship of the 7th Fleet when the , then touring the Far East, embarked . During the remainder of her Far Eastern tour she carried out a schedule of large scale fleet exercises off , and visits to Japanese ports. She departed for the .Helena Yokosuka Hong Kong Philippines Japan Joint Chiefs of Staff 2 February 1950 Okinawa United States 21 May 1950
schedule called for a summer spent in Long Beach, followed by overhaul at . Suddenly came word of the communist aggression in . Hurriedly she prepared for sea; and, on , sped westward. Stopping at only to take on ammunition, she plowed across the and into action on the east coast of Korea. On , she first unleashed her guns on an enemy target the railroad , trains, and power plant near .Helena's San Francisco Korea 6 July 1950 Pearl Harbor Pacific 7 August marshalling yards Tanchon
Serving as flagship of the Bombardment Task Group, pounded enemy positions, aiding immeasurably in keeping the invaders off balance and preventing them from mounting a formidable drive, as forces prepared to take the offensive. Operations such as hers provided the diversion necessary to cover the powerful amphibious assault into , , Later, provided gunfire support for Korean troops pushing the invaders north along the east coast, and it was , concentrated firepower that aided in creating a diversion at , and in the recapture of .Helena United Nations Inchon 15 September 1950 HelenaHelena's Samchok Pohang
Valuable as she was in Korean waters, could no longer put off overhaul, and in November 1950 she arrived at Long Beach to prepare for the now twice-postponed yard period.Helena
After her overhaul, she reported for duty at , and was assigned to , the fast carrier group making daily air strikes against the enemy. While operating as heavy support for the carriers, was often detached to pound shore targets. During June 1951, she was occupied almost continually in interdiction fire at targets along the east coast of Korea, subsequently she returned to the Task Force, At twilight on a day late in July, was straddled and then hit by shore gunfire. Damage was light, and, swiftly twisting around the harbor in the maneuver which came to be called "the war dance", delivered rapid continuous fire that destroyed seven enemy gun positions and an ammunition dump. After a short respite at Yokosuka, she returned again to the Task Force, but was soon detached for special duty supporting a massive air strike on supply depots and rail road marshalling yards at , acting as radar picket. Sasebo 18 April 1951 Task Force 77 HelenaHelenaHelena Rashin
accurate gunnery was next sought by the , for whom she fired at 13 targets along the bombline in aid of advancing infantry. Her support to ground forces continued with missions fired for and units. On she returned to Yokosuka. Here, at a ceremony on her decks, President of Korea presented to the first awarded to a naval unit. received the award for her operations in the fall of 1950.Helena's Eighth Army United States Marines Republic of Korea Army 20 September 1951 Syngman Rhee Task Force 95 Korean Presidential Unit Citation Helena
After rejoining the Task Force, was ordered to duty as fire support vessel in the - area. With her helicopter providing its usual efficient spotting, she fired with great success on rail and highway bridges, marshalling yards and gun positions for the next 2 weeks.Helena Hungnam Hamhung
returned to Long Beach and her entire battery of nine 8-inch (200 mm) guns was replaced. In February, she commenced training for return to the Far East. One of the highlights of this training period came from to 1952 when she took part in "Lex Baker One", the largest scale training exercise held since the outbreak of the . Over 70 ships and 15,000 sailors and Marines took active part in this operation.Helena 8 December 1951 14 February 23 February Korean War
arrived once again at Yokosuka and the next day was underway to rendezvous with Task Force 77 off the coast of Korea. For 5 months her mission again was to burn buildings, destroy gun positions, and smash transportation facilities; all were left in her wake after shore bombardments. She also performed air rescue of pilots, two of whom were deep in enemy territory.Helena 8 June 1952
On , was relieved of her normal duties at Yokosuka and 5 days later sailed on a special mission. She called first at where on Admiral , Commander In Chief Pacific Fleet, boarded the ship by helicopter to visit briefly. Two days later she proceeded to Guam, where President-Elect , with several of his prospective cabinet members, and Admiral Radford embarked for passage to Pearl Harbor. Top-level policy conferences were held on board. distinguished passengers disembarked at Pearl Harbor , and she returned to Long Beach . 24 November 1952 Helena Iwo Jima 1 December Arthur W. Radford Dwight D. Eisenhower Helena's 11 December 1952 16 December
Helena departed for the Far East to join Task Force 77 on security patrol in the and after another voyage to the United States for upkeep and training, rejoined the 7th Fleet at Yokosuka as flagship on . spent much of her time in waters off . The highlights of service during this tour of duty came in February 1955 during the evacuation of the . These off-shore islands posed a possible point of contention between the Nationalist and Communist Chinese; and it was determined to neutralize them by means of evacuation. On came the "execute" from President Eisenhower, and the fleet, led by , got underway. By 1500 on , with Helena on watchful patrol, all civilians had been removed to safety from the islands a total of 18,000 people. Early on the remaining 20,000 Nationalist troops were removed and, as steamed on rear guard patrol, the Task Force sailed south. 4 August 1953 Sea of Japan 11 October 1954 Helena Taiwan Helena's Tachen Islands 6 February Helena 9 February 1955 12 February Helena
After 6 months' training in home waters, again sailed for Yokosuka, arriving . During the 6 months of this tour of duty, she once more operated primarily in the Taiwan area and briefly in waters on exercises. She returned to Long Beach .Helena 25 January 1956 Philippine 8 July
Exercises, which included firing of the Regulus I missile from launching gear, continued for 9 months, and then she headed for another Far East tour . During the ensuing tour of duty, she played her flagship role fully, combining sea power and diplomacy.Helena's 10 April 1957
returned to Long Beach . Following a major overhaul completed and intensive training, including missile launching, she again sailed west.Helena 19 October 31 March 1958
1958 cruise in the Far East began . Her first port of call was , arriving . On the next day, students and faculty of the were received on board for a tour of the ship. Her schedule next called for a visit to , but the crisis brought on by the Chinese Communist shelling of the off-shore islands of Quemoy and Matsu governed by the Nationalists interrupted normal operations.Helena's 3 August Keelung, Taiwan 21 August Taiwan National Defense College Manila
During the next weeks, patrolled the troubled area. On she steamed to within 10 miles (16 km) of the Chinese mainland, covering Chinese Nationalist supply ships replenishing . While on this duty, she was illustrating once more the fact that the mere presence of the overwhelming naval strength of the United States is one of the most formidable protections the free world has in deterring such aggression.Helena 7 September Quemoy Island
On , while off the Philippines, word flashed to to proceed to the aid of a stricken merchant vessel of Norwegian registry, the , which had run aground on in the . reached the scene at 1000, . Her helicopters rescued men, women and children, whom she transported to . Her men had skillfully and courageously carried out a difficult humanitarian mission, another contribution to strengthening American relationships with Asian nations. resumed patrol and readiness operations until her return to Long Beach . 9 October 1958 Helena Hoi Wong Bombay Reef Paracel Islands Helena 10 October 1958 Hong Kong Helena 17 February 1959
On departed for the Western Pacific in company with and her escort of Destroyer Squadron 23. Visits to Korea and to Taiwan prefaced her participation in , one of the largest peacetime amphibious exercises in our history. 5 January 1960 HelenaYorktown Operation Blue Star
After a period in Japan, sailed with and to . On , , in company with destroyers and , set sail for . She then returned to Long Beach and from June until November underwent extensive overhaul. In mid-January 1961 she became the permanent flagship of Commander, 1st Fleet.HelenaRangerSaint Paul Guam 24 April 1960 HelenaTaylorJenkins Australia
On , led by the , 12 1st Fleet ships put on a firepower demonstration for more than 700 members of the . In June, , with eight guests of the on board, cruised to , for the Rose Festival. 17 May 1961 Helena American Ordnance Association Helena Secretary of the Navy Portland, Oregon
During the next months, joined in , rendezvousing with cruiser , the guided missile frigate and their destroyer escort to form the largest "Fleet Sail" in 4 years. visited major ports of the Far East, rode out off Hong Kong, then returned to , soon to participate in . During the remainder of the year, participated in a major fleet demonstration observed by the , Admiral . Her last operation of the year was Exercise "Black Bear."Helena Exercise Tail Wind Los AngelesCoontzHelena Typhoon Olga San Diego 6 October Exercise Covered Wagon Helena Chief of Naval Operations George W. Anderson
During 1961 and 1962, , operated in West Coast and western Pacific waters, taking part in several amphibious operations with ships of the 1st Fleet and elements of the and . embarked foreign and staff officers from the March 1962, and two groups of members engaged in orientation cruises in June and August.Helena 1st Marine Division 3rd Marine Air Wing Helena Naval War College Navy League
As the year ended, was scheduled for inactivation at . On , Commander 1st Fleet shifted his flag to . was placed out of commission in Reserve . was transferred on 30 June 1963 to San Diego Group Pacific Reserve Fleet. Stricken on 01 January 1974, and sold to Levin Metals Co., Beverly Hills, Calif., on 13 November 1974, and scrapped in San Pedro, Calif the following year. The ships bell is located in Helena Montana on the grounds of Fort Harrison, outside the Naval Reserve building, along with anchor chain and one propeller.Helena Long Beach Naval Shipyard 18 March 1963 Saint PaulHelena 29 June 1963 Helena