Adam Zagajewski
On Lines by Emily Dickinson
There is a pain – so utter – It swallows substance up – Then covers the Abyss with Trance – So Memory can step Around – across – opon it – As one within a Swoon – Goes safely – where an open eye – Would drop Him – Bone by Bone.
—from “599” by Emily Dickinson
I thought of this Emily Dickinson poem when I got the news that the husband of a dear friend of mine had committed suicide. I do not know how my friend bears such pain. I believe it’s an act of courage for her to speak to anyone at all, much less at his funeral service in which she gave everyone there the gift of trying through her grief to articulate how much she loved him.
Dickinson’s poem is an argument. The speaker doesn’t tell us what occasioned her pain, but lets us plug in our own. There is no information in the poem that separates her from us. The poem is made to be an experience instead of referring to one, which is precisely how she says she knows poetry in her famous remark to Higginson: “If I read a book [and] it makes my whole body so cold no fire ever can warm me I know that is poetry. If I feel physically as if the top of my head were taken off, I know that is poetry. These are the only way I know it. Is there any other way.”
No, I don’t think there is. Dickinson’s poems have certainly taken the top of my head off and they frequently put it back on when I need it.
Irvine, California Michael Ryan
To know just how He suffered – would be dear  –  To know if any Human eyes were near To whom He could entrust His wavering gaze – 
—from "688" by Emily Dickinson
Read recently at the funeral of a young man who died suddenly, surprisingly, and alone, at the age of twenty-six, with no apparent cause or explanation, and lay for a time undiscovered, this poem by Emily Dickinson named the mystery uncannily and precisely as I believe nothing else could have, and performed a kind of grace.
Jeff Seroy New York, New York
I felt my life with both my hands To see if it was there— I held my spirit to the Glass, To prove it possibler—
—from "#351" by Emily Dickinson
On days I feel alienated or isolated I recite these lines to myself. The idea that one's existence—which often seems ephemeral, marginal—can be felt like a solid object in one's own hands is very comforting and reassuring. I like to imagine what my life might look like as a weaving or collage, what colors and textures it might contain. I also like Emily's neologism, "possibler." I can't help but wonder what would have happened if she had used this word in an English composition class.
Nancy Gerber Montclair, NJ
On Lines by Gerard Manley Hopkins
...birds build -- but not I build; no, but strain, Time's eunuch, and not breed one work that wakes. Mine, O thou lord of life, send my roots rain.
—from "Thou Art Indeed Just, Lord" by Gerard Manley Hopkins
These lines continue to sustain. They admit powerfully to a paralysis--spiritual, but also a paralysis of one's ability to make or nurture art--and yet they yearn, ultimately, in those last lines, for sustenance. This is a very real statement of what it means to be human, to be self-aware, and to struggle--against God, yes, and against oneself and the need to create. The last four words alone have come to mind often, as prayer, as chant, as mantra, as life-saving music: "send my roots rain."
Jeffrey Shotts Minneapolis, Minnesota
Each mortal thing does one thing and the same: Deals out that being indoors each one dwells; Selvesoes its self; myself it speaks and spells, Crying What I do is me: for that I came.
—from"As Kingfishers Catch Fire" by Gerard Manley Hopkins
As someone who has struggled to find my calling, my specific purpose in life, Hopkins reminds me that as a "mortal thing", I can do "one thing and the same". Hopkins asserts that my purpose, what I do, flows out of who I am. Finding my calling in life is intertwined with finding the real me. Contrary to how people define themselves by what they do, Hopkins believes that what one does, flows from who they are. Every time I read "Kingfishers", Hopkins encourages me to continue searching for why I am here and to do that "one thing and the same."
Mike Tillema Tualatin, Oregon
On Lines by Mark Strand
We all have reasons for moving. I move to keep things whole.
—from "Keeping Things Whole" by Mark Strand
I first encountered this poem buried in the depths of an anthology for a course on Contemporary American Literature. I was never assigned the poem by the professor, but I find myself continually returning to this quatrain because of its utter simplicity and complete transcendence. This poem has altered my perception of the life I act upon each day, reminding me of all that our planet contains within its atmosphere and how desperately everything seeks a feeling of connectedness. Strand acknowledges that separation is unavoidable, that feeling void or isolated occurs around every bend of existence; but, he insists, in a voice that is unimposing, that we have to keep going because absence breeds unity and unity breeds absence. One cannot exist without the other. I remember this poem on those days when I feel ready to give up, to plunge headfirst into complacency. Eventually, Strand's words replay themselves in my mind. I overcome these feelings and, simply put, keep moving.
Megan Summers Beaufort, South Carolina
On Lines by Wislawa Szymborska
We, too, can divide ourselves, it's true. But only into flesh and a broken whisper. Into flesh and poetry.
—from "Autotomy" by Wislawa Szymborska
These lines, like the primal word "cleave," which means both to cling and to separate, describe each moment of my life, lived and then past, the lost moment having carried me on to the next moment to which it clings, and so the impossible and necessary separation from my young self as I age, and they describe each significant relationship, my children grown who are still my "children," my husband of many years who is their father but is no longer my husband, my father gone from this world twenty years whose grave I don't visit but whose spirit is with me, my mother who shares her coffee with me now that I am long past being a child, my love beside me who goes and comes out my door each day to face his own day, all my selves, each change of name, the lines that mattered then and now and still, my flesh and poetry.
Katherine Durham Oldmixon Austin, Texas
On Lines by Sir Walter Raleigh
Even such is time, which takes in trust Our youth, our joys, and all we have, And pays us but with age and dust, Who in the dark and silent grave When we have wandered all our ways Shuts up the story of our days, And from which earth, and grave, and dust The Lord shall raise me up, I trust.
—"The Author's Epitaph, Made By Himself" by Sir Walter Raleigh
This poem, supposedly copied into Raleigh's Bible the night before his execution in 1628, is talismanic for me because of the way the lines are both an act of contrition and humility before God, as well as a gesture of defiance toward the executioner. No matter the power of King James's state to chop off Raleigh's head, the invisible estate conjured by "the Lord shall raise me up, I trust" is as fierce as it is humble, as poignant as it is confident. I can't characterize myself as a believer, and I seriously doubt that God, for Raleigh, was anything more than a convention: these lines, it turns out, are actually a version of the last stanza of a love poem, "Nature That Washed Her Hands in Milk" written about 1592. But God as a convention that invokes a higher sense of justice becomes for me, through Raleigh's lines, a way of feeling through your own nerve-ends the actual, lived experience of an uncompromised and uncompromising sense of "they may get away with it now, but now won't be always—a reckoning will come."
And equally important to me is how the gravitas and sorrow of the first few lines, as they evolve into the almost jaunty avowal of eventual resurrection in the last line, provide me with a way to feel about such ambivalent events as Saddam Hussein's execution: Saddam dangling from a rope is a complex image to overcome by overt moralizing, judicial justifications, or even an empathetic ear listening in on the hatred and pain that those whom he tortured and killed must feel toward him. At the same time, one can imagine Saddam feeling about his own execution in exactly the same way Raleigh seems to feel about his. And so embedded in that comprehensive and contradictory and ultimately blocked set of intuitions is the reason why I love these lines: they let no one outmaneuver their canny mix of indictment, sorrow, and nearly profane joy.
Tom Sleigh
On Lines by Cid Corman and Robert Duncan
There are things to be said. No doubt. And in one way or another they will be said. But to whom tell the silences? With whom share them now? For a moment the sky is empty and then there was a bird.
—from "There Are Things to be Said" by Cid Corman
There is no life that does not rise melodic from scales of the marvelous.—
—from "The Venice Poem" by Robert Duncan
When Phoebe, one of our beloved Afghan Hounds died, I wanted to send out a notice, along with pictures, to some of her friends. She had been a commanding presence not only in our home, but in the show ring, where her antics marked her as having the true spirit of the ever-entertaining Afghan. Her elegance, beauty, and idiosyncrasies left us truly bereft. It was only right that I should think of Cid Corman's words when my own failed me. These, along with two lines of the incomparable Robert Duncan, became the epitaph for this lovely being who had dominated our home for fifteen years. Since then, these words have become a kind of mantra, coming to me unbidden, at the times of other losses in our lives.
Fran Claggett Sebastopol, California
On Lines by Adrienne Rich
Nervy, glowering, your daughter wipes the teaspoons, grows another way.
—from "Snapshots of a Daughter-In-Law" by Adrienne Rich
In high school my friend Eve and I spent a lazy afternoon lying on the great lawn and reading poems from our Norton Anthology out loud to each other, hungry especially for the voices of women, voices that echoed our own burgeoning feminism and sketched out roads we ourselves might travel. Adrienne Rich's nod to this nervy daughter's journey into the unexpected touched me deeply. As a lesbian, I knew that my life, too, would be full and difficult and uncharted. Rich taught me that I was not alone.
Emily Moore New York, New York
On Lines by Brigit Pegeen Kelly
                                                                 There Would be a whistle, a hum, a high murmur, and, at last, a song, The low song a lost boy sings remembering his mother call. Not a cruel song, no, no, not cruel at all. This song Is sweet. It is sweet. The heart dies of this sweetness.
—from "Song" by Brigit Pegeen Kelly
In the early nineties I heard Brigit Pegeen Kelly give the first public reading of her poem "Song," of which these are the last lines. I remember feeling that "something just happened to me": that the poem, and in particular those last lines resonated in me more than any lines ever had—although I couldn quite understand why. More than a decade later I still can explain—but have come to love that mystery. Not a week goes by that I don say those lines to myself—as a celebration, consolation, explanation, or as an "inner song" in moments of utter confusion or doubt.
New York, New York Laure-Anne Bosselaar
On Lines by Frank Bidart
WHETHER YOU LOVE WHAT YOU LOVE OR LIVE IN DIVIDED CEASELESS REVOLT AGAINST IT WHAT YOU LOVE IS YOUR FATEthen the voice in my head said
— from "Guilty of Dust" by Frank Bidart
I have been both comforted and frightened by those lines, on countless occasions. To me they are a lasting example of how poetic power does not always depend on image and metaphor; poetic power can come in abstract language if there is enough emotional energy propelling it.
"What you love is your fate"—the central force shaping your life, according to this deeply romantic view, is your love. The idea is attractive, romantically, yet in "Guilty of Dust" there is a fierce sense that we may find ourselves loving in ways not only unwise but desperately troubling. Your love—your deepest and most impassioned desire-ardor-admiration—turns out to be a force controlling you even as you feel you are choosing to be defined by it. A frightening idea, yet preferable to the idea that you are controlled by animal needs, by chemistry, by economics, by tribal politics, or by some imaginary deity.
"What you love is your fate"—the essence of your life will turn out to be a pattern designed by your power to love. But Bidart's lines say that you may rebel against this—with agonizing consequences.
Bidart is interested in people whose deepest desires are transgressive. In my own life, this has not seemed to be the case; but like most of us, I'm very familiar with desires, or kinds of love, that defeat and prevent other conceivable pleasures and satisfactions.
These lines from "Guilty of Dust" have come to me, for instance, when I see myself heading home toward wife and child—or, turning toward a book of poetry—when a beautiful young woman is leaving the room, leaving the building, getting into her car, going away. Or, when I see myself lifting and moving boxes of books from one apartment to another, one house to another, decade after decade. Or, when I imagine all the memorial services, years hence, at which I'll praise the writing of a friend who has diedr I'll be the deceased writer . . .
I once heard Bidart say "You've got to love what you love" (I think he was quoting Robert Lowell who was quoting Van Gogh); and this helped me: the realization that you can at least choose to love with vigor and imagination what you find yourself loving; there is thus some choice involved!
Mark Halliday Athens, Ohio
On Lines by Robert Frost
Back out of all this now too much for us
—from irectiveby Robert Frost
I think of this line almost every dayt speaks to my own life (which is always too much for me ) and to our collective American life (we were so busy, we were so tired, we wish we had more timeaybe two weeks from Wednesday?) our dislocation in the midst of absolute overload of information, bereft of truth, impotent, generalized, lonely. Frost bring us back to the road that is not a road, and a house that is no more a houseo the source, a spring, near where the children has their little house of make believe. Their small dishes still strewn about.
Drink and be whole again, Frost writes, beyond confusion.
Within the confines of my own consciousness I try, when I remember the line, to return to that sourceo rest there, drink, and return returned to myself.
Marie Howe Bronxville, New York
Ah, when to the heart of man Was it ever less than a treason To go with the drift of things, To yield with a grace to reason, And bow and accept the end Of a love or a season?
—from "Reluctance" by Robert Frost
There are some lines of poetry that seem to circle back at unexpected times to comfort but also to disturb us. My 12th grade English teacher presented these words to our class about 30 years ago, as we were about to embark into the big wide world. My teacher had found lines that managed to sum up all I was feeling at the time; I found it nearly impossible to accept that I was having to leave the cocoon of home and the enchantment of that class (and my teacher - oh, it was a monumental crush!). I certainly showed no grace in that leave-taking. Literature became my obsession because of that class, and I went on to major in English in college, and later to change careers from law to teaching high school English. At the end of each school year, when I am feeling particularly wistful about saying goodbye to my students, I hand out this poem, and I manage to pile on to the present wistfulness the longing I feel for those long gone days of my youth. Every ending pulls these words to my mind, and I realize that grace isn't all it's cracked up to be.
Janet Davis Karman Southborough, Massachusetts
The woods are lovely, dark and deep, But I have promises to keep, And miles to go before I sleep, And miles to go before I sleep.
—from "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening" by Robert Frost
One night late on my way home from college for Christmas, I was caught in a blizzard without the company of an intelligent guide (I was driving, instead of a horse, a '62 Buick Special). I had passed through the last small town and was halfway between nowhere and Dodge City, Kansas when the road vanished beneath snow and my little car foundered badly. Realizing that no one was going to be passing by until the next day, I got out and started walking. Nothing. Nobody, no thing anywhere. At last the distant light of a farmhouse appeared, the only one, I discovered later, within miles. And if it hadn't been for the family inside that farmhouse, I might simply have frozen to death. As I was walking toward it, I thought of this poem, and I knew that , and I felt ecstatically liberated. Never have I seen these last lines in "Stopping by Woods" read as liberating rather than duty-bound. So boring for students: oh, this is a little lesson about obligations and responsibility. No time to ski, you've got chores to do before sleep, and you always will, and that's the way life is, suck it up and live with it. But the misunderstanding here is not in the specific explanation; it's in the very attempt at explanation. I hope they continue to teach in high schools the most over taught poem in America; I just wish they would stop explaining it.I would be able to keep my promises
B.H. Fairchild Claremont, California
—from "Birches" by Robert Frost
It is during those moments that I am hiding in my work, those days when I have spent more time writing than talking to people, and especially during those periods when the work is not coming well that I find myself circling back to Frost's line. The lines pop into my head, always taking me by surprise. I never recall the whole poem, or even the latter part of the line, "I don't know where it is likely to go better," but his are the words which remind me that I do need to get outside of myself, my mind, and my work to make a connection with someone—to, perhaps, even find love. My heart drops, into my stomach, at the visceral fear and ache those words inspire. Nevertheless, I need to stop fearing hurt, for "earth's the right place for love."
Rachel A. Wortman Concord, New Hampshire
On Lines by Allen Ginsberg
I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by    madness, starving hysterical naked, dragging themselves through the negro streets at    dawn looking for an angry fix, angelheaded hipsters burning for the ancient    heavenly connection to the starry dynamo    in the machinery of night
—from "" by Howl Allen Ginsberg
This poem was read to me when I was 19. I was in Paris on leave from a base in England and three of us had been given this guy's name and phone number and told he would let us stay with him for a couple of days. He read the whole poem as we drank wine and sat on the floor of his apartment. It started me on my road to discovery in poetry. I am 68 and still write poetry to this day. It comes to mind often in conversation with people regarding poetry. I have started a poem talking about current generations and "how i have seen the worst minds of current generations assume power in high places"
George Hoerner Little River, South Carolina
I want to be known as the most brilliant man in America
—from "Ego Confession" by Allen Ginsberg
Sometimes when I feel most down, when I feel most detached and obscure and like I'm doing no good for anybody, I think about this line of poetry and it makes me laugh and gives me guidance. It's a line that on first glance appears to boast the highest form of pomposity. But on closer inspection the line betrays not pretension, but rather what it means to be selfless. After all, what does it mean to be brilliant? To be smart? Nah. To be superior? No. To be brilliant is to glow. To shed light from within. So in my day-to-day I can at least aspire to be remembered as someone who—even if not the "most brilliant"—at least gave some of what was inside and who brought a little more light into the world.
Shelly Blake Elkridge, Maryland
On Lines by Theodore Roethke
I have married my hands to perpetual agitation, I run, I run to the whistle of money. Money money money Water water water How cool the grass is. Has the bird left? The stalk still sways. Has the worm a shadow? What do the clouds say?
—from "The Lost Son" by Theodore Roethke
These lines come to me at moments of anxiety and distraction. I think they include a remarkable transition of rhythm and tone, an audible passage from panic to serenity, from the urgent insistence of "Money money money" to the slow counterpoint of "Water water water." They work like a beta blocker on me. They slow my heart rate and calm me down.
Nashville, Tennessee Mark Jarman
I wake to sleep, and take my waking slow. I learn by going where I have to go
—from "The Waking" by Theodore Roethke
I encountered this poem when I lived in Europe and picked up any book I found that was written in English. These words spoke immediately to something deep in me, but I didn't know then that they were a prophecy for my life. Now it is thirty years later, and although I'm in a place I love, I found where I needed to go only by going there. I never had a plan, I never said "in five years I want to be doing this," I just took the next step that led to the next step. So when peop