North Carolina
The worst sin towards our fellow creatures is not to hate them, but to be indifferent to them. That's the essence of inhumanity
.  -George Bernard Shaw
Did You Know?Facts About Spaying or Neutering your Pets
Two unaltered cats and all their offspring can number an astounding 420,000 in 7 years.
Two unaltered dogs and their offspring can number 67,000 in 6 years.
Every day in the United States, more than 70,000 puppies and kittens are born. When this number is compared to 10,000 human births each day, it is clear that there can never be enough homes for all these pets.
Each year more than 12,000,000 dogs, cats, puppies and kittens are left at animal shelters around the country.
Nearly, 8,000,000 have to be euthanized because there are not enough homes for all of them.
Spayed and neutered dogs and cats live longer, healthier lives.
Spaying and neutering can eliminate or reduce the incidence of health problems that can be very difficult or expensive to treat.
Spaying female dogs and cats eliminates the possibility of uterine or ovarian cancer and greatly reduces the incidence of breast cancer, particularly when your pet is spayed before the first estrous cycle.
Neutering male dogs reduces the incidence of prostrate cancer and prostate disorders.
Spayed and neutered pets are better, more affectionate companions.
Neutered cats are less likely to spay and mark territory.
Spaying a female dog or cat eliminates its heat cycle. Estrus lasts an average of six to twelve days, often twice a year, in dogs, and an average of six to seven days, three or more times a year, in cats. Females in heat can cry incessantly, show nervous behavior, and attract unwanted male animals.
Spayed and neutered pets are less likely to bite. Unaltered animals often exhibit more behavior and temperament problems than do those that have been spayed or neutered.
Neutered males are less likely to roam the neighborhood, run away, or get into fights.
-The Humane Society of the United States
 