Power
420 W
The spacecraft is an launched on August 20, 1977. Identical in form to its sister craft , followed a slower trajectory that allowed it to be kept in the (the plane of the ) so that it could be sent to and by means of during the 1981 encounter at . Because of this trajectory, could not see the moon up close as its twin had, but the probe did become the first and only spacecraft to travel to Uranus and Neptune, thus completing the , a rare geometric arrangement of the outer planets that only occurs once every 176 years.Voyager 2 unmanned interplanetary space probe Voyager program Voyager 1 Voyager 2 ecliptic Solar System Uranus Neptune gravity assist Saturn Voyager 2 Titan Planetary Grand Tour [1]
is perhaps the most productive space probe yet deployed, visiting four planets and their moons, including two primary visits to previously unexplored planets, with powerful cameras and a multitude of scientific instruments, at a fraction of the money later spent on specialized probes such as the and the probe. Along with , , and , Voyager 2 is an .Voyager 2 Galileo spacecraft Cassini-Huygens [2] [3] Pioneer 10 Pioneer 11 Voyager 1 New Horizons interstellar probe
Contents
Titan 3E Centaur
was originally planned to be , part of the .Voyager 2Mariner 12 Mariner program
was launched on August 20, 1977, from , , aboard a . Ground crews became engrossed in a launch problem with and forgot to send an important activation code to . This caused the probe to shut down its main radio receiver. Fortunately, ground crews were able to establish contact through the spacecraft's back-up radio receiver. In the process of doing all of this, a fuse was blown in the power supply of the primary receiver, permanently disabling it, and thus the back-up receiver had to be relied upon for the entire mission.Voyager 2 Cape Canaveral Florida Titan III-E Centaur rocket Voyager 1Voyager 2[] citation needed
[] edit Jupiter
The closest approach to occurred on July 9, 1979. It came within 570,000 km (350,000 miles) of the planet's cloud tops. It discovered a few , as well as volcanic activity on the moon . Jupiter rings around Jupiter Io
The was revealed as a complex storm moving in a counterclockwise direction. An array of other smaller storms and eddies were found throughout the banded clouds. Great Red Spot
Discovery of active volcanism on the satellite was easily the greatest unexpected discovery at Jupiter. It was the first time active volcanoes had been seen on another body in the solar system. Together, the Voyagers observed the eruption of nine volcanoes on Io, and there is evidence that other eruptions occurred between the Voyager encounters. Io
displayed a large number of intersecting linear features in the low-resolution photos from Voyager 1. At first, scientists believed the features might be deep cracks, caused by crustal rifting or tectonic processes. The closer high-resolution photos from Voyager 2, however, left scientists puzzled: The features were so lacking in topographic relief that as one scientist described them, they "might have been painted on with a felt marker." Europa is internally active due to tidal heating at a level about one-tenth that of Io. Europa is thought to have a thin crust (less than 30 kilometers or 18 miles thick) of water ice, possibly floating on a 50-kilometer-deep (30 mile) ocean. Europa
Two new, small satellites, and , were found orbiting just outside the ring. A third new satellite, , was discovered between the orbits of Amalthea and Io. Adrastea Metis Thebe
[] edit Saturn
The closest approach to occurred on August 26, 1981. Saturn [1]
While passing behind Saturn (as viewed from Earth), probed Saturn's upper atmosphere with its radio link to measure temperature and density profiles. found that at the highest levels (7 pressure) Saturn's temperature was 70 (203 C), while at the deepest levels measured (120 kilopascals) the temperature increased to 143 kelvins (130 C). The north pole was found to be 10 kelvins cooler, although this may be ().Voyager 2Voyager 2 kilopascals kelvins seasonal see also Saturn Oppositions
After the Saturn flyby, the camera platform on locked up briefly, putting plans to officially extend the mission to and in jeopardy. Fortunately, the mission team was able to fix the problem  caused by overuse that temporarily depleted its lubricant  and the probe was given the go-ahead to examine Uranus.Voyager 2 Uranus Neptune
Saturn taken by Voyager 2.
Iapetus by Voyager 2 spacecraft, August 22, 1981.
Color image of Enceladus, almost full disk.
Titan.
Main article: Exploration of Uranus
The closest approach to occurred on January 24, 1986, where it came within 81,500 kilometers (50,600 miles) of the planet's cloud tops. discovered 10 previously unknown ; studied the planet's unique atmosphere, caused by its of 97.8 ; and examined its . Uranus Voyager 2 moons axial tilt ring system
Uranus is the third largest planet in the solar system. It orbits the Sun at a distance of about 2.8 billion kilometers (1.7 billion miles) and completes one orbit every 84 years. The length of a day on Uranus as measured by Voyager 2 is 17 hours, 14 minutes. Uranus is distinguished by the fact that it is tipped on its side. Its unusual position is thought to be the result of a collision with a planet-sized body early in the solar system's history. Given its odd orientation, with its polar regions exposed to sunlight or darkness for long periods, scientists were not sure what to expect at Uranus.
Voyager 2 found that one of the most striking influences of Uranus' sideways position is its effect on the tail of the magnetic field, which is itself tilted 60 degrees from the planet's axis of rotation. The magnetotail was shown to be twisted by the planet's rotation into a long corkscrew shape behind the planet. The presence of a magnetic field at Uranus was not known until Voyager's arrival.
Radiation belts at Uranus were found to be of an intensity similar to those at . The intensity of radiation within the belts is such that irradiation would quickly darken (within 100,000 years) any methane trapped in the icy surfaces of the inner moons and ring particles. This may have contributed to the darkened surfaces of the moons and ring particles, which are almost uniformly gray in color. Saturn
A high layer of haze was detected around the sunlit pole, which also was found to radiate large amounts of ultraviolet light, a phenomenon dubbed "dayglow." The average temperature is about 60 kelvins (350 degrees Fahrenheit/213 degrees Celsius). Surprisingly, the illuminated and dark poles, and most of the planet, show nearly the same temperature at the cloud tops.
The moon , innermost of the five large moons, was revealed to be one of the strangest bodies yet seen in the solar system. Detailed images from Voyager's flyby of the moon showed huge fault canyons as deep as 20 kilometers (12 miles), terraced layers, and a mixture of old and young surfaces. One theory holds that Miranda may be a reaggregation of material from an earlier time when the moon was fractured by a violent impact. Miranda
All nine previously known rings were studied by the spacecraft and showed the Uranian rings to be distinctly different from those at Jupiter and Saturn. The ring system may be relatively young and did not form at the same time as Uranus. Particles that make up the rings may be remnants of a moon that was broken by a high-velocity impact or torn up by gravitational effects.
Uranus viewed from 18 million kilometers.
Uranus Final Image.
Voyager 2 shot of the Uranian rings.
Miranda (moon)
Main article: Exploration of Neptune
The closest approach to occurred on August 25, 1989. Since this was the last major planet could visit, it was decided to make a close flyby of the moon , regardless of the consequences to the trajectory, as with s encounter with and its moon . Neptune [4] Voyager 2 Triton ' Voyager 1 Saturn Titan
The probe also discovered the , which has since disappeared, according to observations. Originally thought to be a large cloud itself, it was later postulated to be a hole in the visible cloud deck. Great Dark Spot Hubble Space Telescope
For many years, beginning in the late 19th century, it was widely believed that an unseen planet (dubbed "") was influencing Uranus and Neptune, as their observed and predicted positions differed. This belief brought about the 1930 discovery of , and persisted as it became increasingly clear that Pluto does not have the mass to account for these discrepancies. When passed Neptune, it became possible to precisely measure Neptune's mass. Neptune turned out to be 0.5% less massive than previously believed, a difference comparable to the entire mass of Mars. When Uranus and Neptune's orbits were recalculated using the most accurate figure, it became clear that the erroneous mass figure - not the gravity of an unseen planet - caused the orbital discrepancies which had long vexed the astronomical community. Planet X Pluto Voyager 2 [5]
With the 2006 decision of the to reclassify as a "", the 1989 flyby of Neptune by became the point when every planet in the solar system had been visited at least once by spacecraft. International Astronomical Union Pluto dwarf planet Voyager 2
image of NeptuneVoyager 2
image of TritonVoyager 2
[] edit Escaping the solar system
Since its planetary mission is over, is now described as working on an interstellar mission, which is using to find out what the is like beyond the . Like around three years before, crossed into the heliosheath, the last section of the heliosphere before interstellar space, in October 2007. Each Voyager carries a in the event that either spacecraft is ever found by intelligent aliens. The disc carries images of Earth and its lifeforms, a range of scientific information, and a medley, "Sounds of Earth", that includes the sounds of whales, a baby crying, waves breaking on a shore and a variety of music.Voyager 2 NASA solar system heliosphere Voyager 1Voyager 2 gold-plated audio-visual disc
As of September 26, 2008, is at a distance of around 87.03 (13.019 km, or 8.077 miles) from the Sun , deep in the , and traveling outward at roughly 3.28 AUs per year. It is more than twice as far from the Sun as , and far beyond the of , but not yet beyond the outer limits of the orbit of .Voyager 2 AU billion billion scattered disc [6] Pluto perihelion 90377 Sedna Eris
On October 30, 2007, passed the termination shock into the , approximately 1 billion miles (1.6 billion km) closer to the Sun than did. This is due to the local interstellar magnetic field of deep space. The southern hemisphere of the solar system's heliosphere is being pushed in.Voyager 2 heliosheath Voyager 1 [7] [8]
is not headed toward any particular star. It will pass by the 2.6 parsec distant star at a distance of 1.32 (4.3 , 25 trillion ) in about 296,000 years.Voyager 2 Sirius [9] [10] parsecs ly mi [11]
is expected to keep transmitting until at least after 2025, over 48 years since launch.Voyager 2 [12]
Year
End of specific capabilities as a result of the available electrical power limitations
1998
Terminate scan platform and UV observations
2007
Termination of Digital Tape Recorder operations (because it was no longer needed due to a receiver failure)
2008
Power off Planetary Radio Astronomy Experiment (PRA)
2015 approx