Send email »
Dangerous has secured a nomination in this years Primetime Emmy awards. The nomination is for the episode STRENGTH in the category Outstanding Special Visual Effects For A Series. (Executive Producer) said, It is excellent to see the Discovery / Dangerous relationship grow from strength to strength. After delivering great ratings for the channel, this nomination proves it is truly possible to create engaging and informative primetime factual television. (Producer and Visual Effects Supervisor) said, I think this is a great honour. Congratulations to all involved, particularly Mike Tucker at The Model Unit, Louise Hussey at Rushes and their respective teams. I am particularly proud that we are the only factual programme to have been nominated in this category. The series has been nominated against an impressive rostrum of dramas, namely HEROES, STARGATE ATLANTIS, JERICHO and TERMINATOR: THE SARAH CONNOR CHRONICLES. The award was deservedly won by the talented team on BATTLESTAR GALACTICA, whose work continues to dazzle audiences throughout the world. is a four part series, commissioned by Discovery Channel US. In it the viewer is taken on a thrilling ride through the extremes of the human body. Using dramatic reconstruction and sophisticated CGI they witness extreme stories of survival, and breathtaking science in the everyday miracle of the body. The prestigious Primetime Emmy awards ceremony, which celebrate its 60th anniversary this year, was created to recognise excellence across all fields of television production. Recently Dangerous has enjoyed a nominated in the Primetime Emmys for Outstanding Made For Television Movie (2007) for (international title 9/11  THE TWIN TOWERS). (Head of Development) said, We are delighted that the series performed so well for Discovery. Our latest commission , takes the grammar and technology of , and pushes it to the next level. We are confident it will prove as critically and commercially successful as when it airs in 2009.Dangerous Nominated For Emmy