Blog
Interdimensional Travel
One of the skills one can gain through the study of sacred space is the ability to move at will and consciously to different levels of reality. By focusing intent, one can go from one dimension to another. Through studying the Sun and the Moon and learning how to predict where they will rise and set at major time-points of the year, we are exposed to new ideas about how to move into different dimensions and what it may be like there. We can meet some doorways. Sacred space has doors. Astronomy opens them for us.
Betty Sincerbeaux at Calendar II Central Vermont, USA Photo Byron Dix
Winter Solstice Sunrise Calendar II, Central Vermont, USA Again, notice the notch on the horizon Photo Byron Dix
The ancients used this knowledge to better calculate and intuit when the earth energies would be at their peak. If the energy-ley that runs down the major axis of the site is oriented to the Summer Solstice Sunrise, then that will be the day when that particular site will experience a peak of power. Archaeoastronomy can help you know where various important solar, lunar and stellar rises and sets will occur - assuming a non-level horizon. This aids the geomancer in tuning the site and in knowing at what point on the cycle the peaks will occur.
Commercial Break!
Great Archaeo-astronomical Software!
602 Morninghome Road, Danville, CA 94526 USA e-mail: information at carinasoft.com Phone: +1 (925) 838-0695 Fax: +1 (925) 838-0535Voyager 4
Carina Software
What makes Voyager 4 so nice is that you can adjust the horizon – an absolutely necessary part of this work. Voyager II's horizon-adjustment equipment could be a lot better - but it is the only astronomy software I know of at this time that allows you to build in the horizon-level. If you know of another program that does this and you've tried it and like it, please tell us about it., and I'll post it. All items that are not known to MAG will dowsed and tested for suitability. Thank you.
| Previous Next
Search MAG:
• • • • • • •  • • • • • • Home First Time Visitor Astronomy Sacred Geometry Sacred Space Secular Space Dowsing Resources Links MAG E-zine MAG Mailing List Who We Are Contact Us Site Map
 
© 2006 Sig Lonegren - You are welcome to print out single copies of these pages for personal or group study use, without alteration. Fair use quotation is permitted with proper attribution and a link back to this site. All other forms of reproduction on paper or in digital format require permission from the author/webmaster.