is a based on the 1909 by . The musical's book and lyrics are by , with music by . It premiered on at the on and closed on after 709 performances.The Secret Garden musical novel of the same name Frances Hodgson Burnett Marsha Norman Lucy Simon Broadway St. James Theatre 25 April 1991 3 January 1993
The musical, set in 1906, tells of a young girl, Mary, who is forced to move to England from colonial when her parents die in a outbreak. There she lives with her emotionally stunted Uncle Archibald and her invalid cousin. Discovering a hidden and neglected garden, and bravely overcoming dark forces, she and a young gardener bring it back to life at the same time as she brings new life to her cousin and uncle. English India cholera
garnered the 1991 for Best Book of a Musical, Best Featured Actress in a Musical (), and Best Scenic Design (). The set resembled an enormous Victorian with pop-out figures, large paper dolls, and -like collage elements.The Secret Garden Tony Awards Daisy Eagan Heidi Landesman toy theatre Joseph Cornell
Contents
premiered on at the on and closed on after 709 performances.The Secret Garden Broadway St. James Theatre 25 April 1991 3 January 1993
A heavily revised production ran at from November 13, 2000 until January 27, 2001, with and Meredith Braun directed by , staged and choreographed by . The RSC production transferred to the Aldwych Theatre, running from February 2001 until June 2001. Royal Shakespeare Company Stratford Philip Quast Adrian Noble Gillian Lynne [1] West End
[] edit Synopsis
Act I
1906, . Mary Lennox, a 10-year-old English girl who has been raised in India, dreams of nursery rhymes and Indian chants ("Opening"), and awakes to find her parents have died of . She is found by survivors and sent to live with her uncle, whom she's never met ("There's a Girl"). Mary is met in by Mrs. Medlock, housekeeper to her Uncle Archibald, a hunchback who has been inconsolable since his wife Lily's death ("The House Upon the Hill"). India cholera Yorkshire
()Note: Throughout the show, these and other songs are sung by a chorus of , referred to in the as "dreamers," who serve as narrators and for the action. ghosts libretto Greek chorus
Mary has difficulty sleeping her first night there ("I Heard Someone Crying") as she and Archibald both mourn their losses. The next morning, Mary meets Martha, the chambermaid who entices Mary outside with tales of the gardens ("If I Had a Fine White Horse"), in particular, a secret hidden garden. Meanwhile, Archibald continues to wallow in his memories of Lily ("A Girl In the Valley").
Mary discovers the garden, laid out in style as a , as do gardener Ben and Martha's brother, Dickon, each with his own agenda ("It's a Maze"); however it has been locked since Lily's death as it reminds Archibald of her. Dickon, we learn, is something of a who comes to invoke the spring ("Winter's On the Wing"). He claims to converse with animals, and teaches Mary to speak the dialect to a robin ("Show Me the Key"). The bird, with Dickon's help, leads Mary to the key for the garden; but does not show Mary the door. Victorian topiary maze druid Yorkshire
Archibald has a formal meeting with his niece, who asks him for "A Bit of Earth" to plant a garden of her own; he is startled and compares her to Lily. As the Yorkshire gloom turns to rain ("Storm I"), we meet Archibald's younger brother and Neville. He and Archibald both notice that Mary resembles her aunt ("Lily's Eyes") and we learn that Neville had an unrequited love for Lily as well. physician
As the rain continues, Mary again hears someone crying ("Storm II"), but this time she finds him: her cousin Colin, confined to bed since birth, during which his mother Lily died. He has been in bed his entire life because Archibald feared that Colin would also become a hunch back. Colin's spine is perfectly fine but his father is convinced that he has passed on his curse. Colin confides in his cousin his dreams of "A Round-Shouldered Man" who comes to him at night and reads to him from his book "of all that's good and true". However, just as it seems they have become friends, Neville and Mrs. Medlock burst in, intending to give Colin his nightly shot, and dismiss her angrily, telling her she is never to see Colin again. As the storm reaches its peak, Mary runs outside and finds the garden ("Final Storm").
Act II
Mary has a reverie about "The Girl I Mean to Be," with "a place I can go when I am lost." In reality, the garden is like her uncle and Mary herself, neglected and overgrown; it seems dead. Archibald relates his dream to Neville, a dream with Lily and Mary together in the garden. But Neville's dreams are darker; recalling Lily spurning him, Neville looks to the day when Archibald leaves for good and the house becomes Neville's ("Quartet").
At Neville's urging, Archibald agrees to send Mary to a boarding school and then leaves for , pausing only to read his son a fairy tale as Colin sleeps("Race You To the Top of the Morning"). Mary asks Dickon for help with the garden; Dickon explains that it is probably just and that "somewhere there's a single streak of green inside it" ("Wick"). After conversing with Colin about the discovered garden, Mary, Dickon, and Martha clandestinely bring Colin in his wheelchair to the garden, as the ghost of his mother sings to him and with him ("Come to My Garden/Lift Me Up"). In the garden, the exercise and fresh air begin to make Colin well ("Come Spirit, Come Charm"). The dreamers sing the praises of the renewed garden ("A Bit of Earth (Reprise)"). the Continent dormant
Back in the house, Mary faces down Neville as he tells her of her uncle's plans to send her away to school. Martha tells Mary she must "Hold On"--"when you see a man who's ragin'/And he's jealous and he fears/That you'll walk through walls he's hid behind for years..." Mary writes a letter to Archibald ("Letter Song") urging him to come home. At first he feels defeated and frustrated ("Where In the World"), but Lily's ghost convinces him to return ("How Could I Ever Know").
Entering the garden, he finds Colin completely healthy; in fact, he is beating Mary in a footrace as Archibald walks through the door. Archibald, a changed man, accepts Mary as his own, and the dreamers invite all to "stay here in the garden" ("Finale").