This article Please help by adding . Unsourced material may be and removed.needs additional for . citations verification improve this article reliable references challenged
(July 2008)
(, - , ) was an pioneer and a recipient of theJack G. Real May 31 1915 September 6 2005 aerospace Howard Hughes Memorial Award
After graduating from in he quickly moved on to attend , graduating in 1937. Immediately he went to work for and shortly after, for , where he met . In 1957, Real became Hughes' personal advisor. Calumet High School Calumet, Michigan Michigan Technological University McDonnell Douglas Lockheed Howard Hughes
Among the many achievements Jack Real attained during his lifetime, he was on the Executive Board of the , and helped , another important name in the industry, with the testing of the at the military base in southern . Real also contributed work on the which helped revolutionize the way the conducts warfare. Throughout all of this, Hughes and Real remained close confidants. In 1979, three years after Hughes' death, Jack Real became the President of and served for eight years until his retirement in 1987. Boy Scouts of America Kelly Johnson SR-71 Blackbird Area 51 Nevada Apache helicopter United States military Hughes Helicopter
Jack Real was often thought of as Howard Hughes' best friend, and in spite of Hughes' passing and his retirement, Real was still not ready to give up his love of Aerospace. He played a key role in relocating the to the in where he was Chairman and President from 1995-2001. Spruce Goose Evergreen Aviation & Space Museum McMinnville, Oregon
He is a recipient of the Howard Hughes Memorial Award presented by the to give recognition "to an aerospace leader whose accomplishments over a long career have contributed significantly to the advancement of aviation or space technology." Southern California Aeronautic Association
Real was living in at the time of his death in 2005. Before his passing, he authored a book, "" (). Mission Hills, California The Asylum of Howard Hughes ISBN 978-1413408751