Join the CHP!
Public Affairs/Customer Service
The information and services provided on this page are set forth by the Government Modernization, Efficiency, Accountability, and Transparency Act of 2005. The California Highway Patrol is committed to providing the highest level of safety, service and security to the public and all visitors to this web page. While every attempt has been made to ensure the information provided is comprehensive and useful, we welcome your questions and comments regarding the services provided by the CHP.
Recruiting
The California Highway Patrol offers a number of challenging careers in the field of law enforcement. The Department provides an excellent salary, full medical benefits, and up to 90 percent retirement. Both peace officer and non-sworn positions are available. If you are interested in diversity, challenges, and opportunities, the CHP invites you to apply to become a part of their professional organization. for more information on these outstanding career opportunities. Visit our Recruiting Page
Decisions Pending and Opportunities for Public Participation
The California Highway Patrol is authorized by the California Vehicle Code to adopt and enforce such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the duties of the Department. These rules and regulations are subject to the procedures contained in the California Government Code and as specified by the California Office of Administrative Law. Regulations adopted by the Department are contained in Title 13, California Code of Regulations. proposed regulatory actions, submit written comments or otherwise participate in administrative procedures, meetings, and hearings. VIEW
Community Service Survey
The California Highway Patrol (CHP) is dedicated to providing quality safety, service, and security. We fulfill these objectives with the support of those we serve. The public's voice has historically been, and continues to be, an integral measure of our success as a public service agency.
assists the public in obtaining information relative to CHP programs and/or activities. You can contact OCOR at:The Office of Community Outreach and Recruitment
California Highway Patrol Office of Community Outreach and Recruitment P. O. Box 942898 Sacramento, California 94298-0001
The Office of Community Outreach and Recruitment is responsible for developing, coordinating, and assessing the impact of traffic safety and outreach programs. Additionally, they assist the Department in evaluating public perception of departmental activities. Please fill out our Community Service Survey.
1-800-TELL CHP (non-emergency) (1-800-835-5247)
The 1-800-TELL CHP is a toll-free number information line that provides citizens with the appropriate CHP contact information. read more ...
Area Offices
The public may visit any CHP Area office to ask questions, offer feedback, or have concerns addressed. Click here to locate . the CHP office nearest you
Office of Internal Affairs -Citizens Feedback and/or Complaints
The CHP has a well-defined procedure for investigating citizen concerns. Internal Affairs Section is responsible for coordinating such investigations. regarding Department Policy or Employee Conduct. Find out how to voice a concern or file a complaint
Computer Crime Reporting for State Agencies
Government Code 14613.7(a) requires state agencies to report all crimes on state-owned or state-leased properties, including those involving state computer resources. and how you can help. Find out about reporting guidelines