Ulnar Nerve Entrapment / Cubital Tunnel Syndrome
Thoracic Outlet Syndrome
Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy
This selection of conditions can mislead the sufferer and clinician. Two or more of the conditions may coexist amplifying the symptoms and causing problems in different areas. It is also clear that psychological or emotional issues are important. Workers are much more likely to develop RSI if they are under pressure, working longer hours are unable to move from their desks, have little time for stretches or gentle exercises or have low job satisfaction or depression. Anxiety or stress can cause muscular tension in the upper back or neck. This leads to poor posture and inefficient movement compromising other areas especially the hands, wrists and elbows. Good ergonomic set up of a work station combined with regular exercises for neck and back pain have been shown to be very effective.
Treatment and Management of RSI
The early stages of Repetitive Stress Injury may respond to a combination of approaches including the application of ice or heat, anti inflammatory medications, rest, specific gentle stretches for RSI and relaxation techniques.
It is essential to for the sufferer to look at their work station and the ergonomic set up  this may best be inspected by a professional ergonomist or occupation health specialist. Treatment from from a manual therapist (osteopaths, physiotherapists, chiropractors or massagers) may be helpful. They may also prescribe the appropriate exercises for RSI and stretches for the neck, upper back, forearms or wrists. TENS machines have been shown to be helpful. Visualisation or biofeedback techniques can be helpful in relieving the muscular tension of the upper back or neck.
Braces for the hand, wrist or forearm may be used to immobilise the limb or redirect certain stresses to other areas.
Speech recognition software can give the users some rest from the keyboard and Desk Therapy exercise programmes may help to re educate the users into taking short breaks and will demonstrate appropriate stretches.
Surgery should only be considered as a last resort as it is often uneffective and may lead to other problems.
Do you suffer from Repetitive Strain Injury (RSI)?
Desk Therapy exercise software can help. Please visit our Home Page to see how Desk Therapy can create an exercise programme designed especially for you.