George Washington
“If I should receive the appointment it, the acceptance would be attended with more diffidence and reluctance than I ever experienced before in my life.” George Washington
When a person hears the name George Washington, they think of the of the first president of the United States of America. I knew a lot about George Washington before I started this report, but after writing this report, I knew a lot more. Some things that I didn’t know about George Washington are: he was offered a third term, he got most of his education from his father and half-bother Lawrence, and that he supported most of Hamilton’s fiscal politics. Born in Westmoreland County, VA, on February 22, 1732. Augustine Washington and his second, wife Mary Washington. From his father and step-brother. Around 10:00 p.m. on December 14, 1799 of a throat infection. George was the eldest son of Augustine Washington and his second wife Martha Washington. He spent his early years on the family estate on Pope’s Creek along the Potomac River. His early education included the study of Math, surveying, the classics, and “rules of Civility.” His father died in 1743, and soon thereafter, George went to live with his half-brother Lawrence at Mount Vernon. Lawrence became something of a substitute father for his brother. George's early ambition to go to sea had been effectively discourage by George's mother; instead he turned to surveying, securing an appointment to survey Lord Fairfay’s land. George accompanied his brother to Barbados in effect to cure tuberculosis, but Lawrence died in 1752, soon after the brothers returned. George ultimately inherited the Mount Vernon estate. He first gained public notice when, as a adjutant of Robert Dunwiddie, he went on a mission to warn the French commander at Fort Le Boeuf against further encroachment on territory claimed by Britain. Washington took command of the troops surrounding Britain, which was occupied by Boston on July 3, devoting the next few months for training the undisciplined 14,000 man army. He then moved to defend New York City against the combined land and sea forces of Sir William Howe. In the last months of 1776, desperately slat of men and supplies Washington almost despaired. He had lost New York City to the British; enlistments were almost up for a number of troops, and others were deserting in dozens; civilian morale was falling rapidly; and congress. Forced by the possibility of a British attack Philadelphia, had withdrawn from the city. After the arrival of the French army in 1780, he concentrated on coordinating allied efforts, and in 1781 launched, in cooperation with the Comte De Rochanbeau and the Comte D’ Estaing, the brilliantly planned and executed Yorktown Campaign against Charles Conwallis, securing the American Victory on October 19, 1981. After the war Washington returned to Mount Vernon, which had declined in his absence. Although he became president of the Society of Cincinnati, he avoided involvement in Virginia politics. Preferring to concentrate on restoring Mount Vernon, he added a greenhouse, a mill, an icehouse, and new land for estate. George Washington took office in New York City on April 30, 1789. Washington acted carefully and deliberately, aware of the need to build an executive structure that could accommodate future presidents. Because he supported many of Hamilton’s controversial fiscal policies, he became a target of attacks for many Jeffersonian Democratic-Republicans. Although many people encouraged Washington to go for his third term, he refused because he was weary of politics. Earnestly desiring leisure, feeling a decline of his physical powers, and wincing under opposite’s abuse, Washington refused to yield to the general pressure for a third term. He retired in March of 1797. On December 12, he wrote his last letter. It was to Alexander Hamilton. George Washington had a huge impact on the 20th century because he placed all of the policies for the future Presidents. He also had an impact on us by beating Charles Conwallis in the American Revolution.
Facts in Brief