Knox County Ohio 7 Essential Steps to Selling Success Home Selling Guide
7 Essential Steps to Selling Success
Knowing and using these 7 essential, yet simple steps is crucial to achieving the best deal possible - whether you decide to sell your home yourself or hire a professional real estate agent to help you.
Take a look at the seven-step system I have outlined in this report. Then, if this new approach to marketing your home makes sense and you want to learn more, I'll show you how to skillfully and specifically apply each of these critical steps to get your home sold for the most money in the shortest amount of time!
7 crucial steps you must take to get top dollar for your home in today's technically savvy world!
Understanding the "Total Market" concept of positioning your home to attract the greatest number of buyers.1.
Using the "Total Market" concept to accurately appraise the value of your home. (The standard CMA is simply not enough!)2.
Pricing Your Home to Appear lower than market value, yet actually asking for more than market value (This one crucial step will get buyers and agents flocking to your door!)3.
Properly advertise and market your home - Using New Technology (Don't use the same old boring ads everyone else is using, and that nobody looks at!)4.
"Detailing" your home for sale. (Your goal is to set your home apart from every other home on the market - instantly attracting buyers to your home.)5.
Learn how to qualify buyers and negotiate offers. (Since we are talking about your money here, the risks of not knowing how to properly qualify and negotiate are too great to ignore or leave to chance!)6.
Understanding and helping the buyer obtain financing, removing contingencies, and closing the sale. (You need a strategy to avoid and eliminate potential problems in escrow, which can undermine your sale!)7.
The better you understand and systematically apply these seven steps, the better the results you will get. And better results means more money, in less time, with the least amount of hassle possible. Isn't that what you ultimately want, whether you decide to sell your home yourself or use the professional services of a licensed agent to help you?
Please let me know if I can help you impliment these steps for you.