Eskimo-Aleut
These groupings, except for the first two, are the native languages in various parts of northeast Asia. Eskimo-Aleut is moreover spoken across the subarctic region from northeast Asia to Greenland, and the Uralic languages are also spoken westward as far as into Scandinavia and Hungary.
[] edit Relation to other language families
According to Greenberg, the language family that Eurasiatic is most closely connected to is . He states that "[t]he Eurasiatic-Amerind family represents a relatively recent expansion (circa 15,000 BP) into territory opened up by the melting of the Arctic ice cap" (2002:2). In contrast, "Eurasiatic-Amerind stands apart from the other families of the Old World, among which the differences are much greater and represent deeper chronological groupings" (ib.). Amerind
[] edit Reception by linguists
The Eurasiatic hypothesis is dismissed by many linguists, often on the ground that Greenberg relies in his research on , a method he developed in the 1950s that remains extremely controversial. Others, citing the wide acceptance of his classification of (cf. Nichols 1992:5), are taking more of a wait-and-see attitude. Greenberg also has his supporters, among them the American linguists and . mass comparison African languages Merritt Ruhlen Allan Bomhard
One of the basic difficulties to proving a genetic relationship between two languages is that contact between populations often results in exchange of words, so that similarities in vocabulary do not necessarily indicate a common origin. Greenberg addressed this question in his (1957:39).Essays in Linguistics
[] edit Morphosyntax
(2002) and others have recently argued that descended from a language characterized by , Subject-Object-Verb word order, use of , and absence of grammatical gender. These characteristics are very common among languages identified by Greenberg as Eurasiatic. Winfred P. Lehmann Proto-Indo-European active-stativeness agglutination
[] edit References
Greenberg, Joseph H. 1957. . Chicago: University of Chicago Press.Essays in Linguistics
Greenberg, Joseph H. 2000. . Stanford: Stanford University Press.Indo-European and Its Closest Relatives: The Eurasiatic Language Family. Volume 1, Grammar
Greenberg, Joseph H. 2002. . Stanford: Stanford University Press.Indo-European and Its Closest Relatives: The Eurasiatic Language Family. Volume 2, Lexicon
Greenberg, Joseph H. 2005. , edited by William Croft. Oxford: Oxford University Press.Genetic Linguistics: Essays on Theory and Method
Lehmann, Winfred P. 2002. . Washington, DC: Institute for the Study of Man.Pre-Indo-European
Nichols, Johanna. 1992. Chicago: University of Chicago Press.Linguistic Diversity in Space and Time.