Bibliography:
('more than 80 electronic bibliographies online'; you can see which bibliographies are available via 'List of Available Titles', but you have to subscribe to consult them) rarebooks.info.
(the 8th edition of the classic text by John Carter and Nicolas Barker (Oak Knoll Press & the British Library, 2004) - mounted by the International League of Antiquarian Booksellers) ABC for Book Collectors
(select volume 35 for the article by G. Thomas Tanselle in 35 (1982):1-42 - via the Electronic Text Center, University of Virginia Library) Cartobibliography. 'The Description of Non-Letterpress Material in Books' Studies in Bibliography
(NB article by Nancy Kandoian, New York Public Library, in , 3:2 (June 2007), pp.45-78) 'Cartobibliography for Catalogers. Reference Materials to Support the Identification of Early Printed Maps' pricedJournal of Map & Geography Libraries: advances in geospatial information, collections & archives
(a searchable listing of 'over 460,000 items, published between 1473 and 1800... from the collections of the British Library and over 2,000 other libraries' English Short Title Catalogue (ESTC)
Online texts
(from 'Questia: the world's largest online library', though a disappointing selection [alternatively activate the search for History AND Cartographic] - preview any book or article title for free; subscribe for full access) History of Cartography
('a tool for teaching the early history of printing in Europe during the second half of the fifteenth century' - University of Iowa Libraries) Incunabula. 'The Atlas of Early Printing'
(select Histoire du livre sur le web - '500 links in the fields of book and printing history') Institut d'histoire du Livre
(a very perceptive article, looking at the historical background and context of Google Books by Robert Darnton, in , 55, No.10 - 12 June 2008) 'The Library in the New Age' The New York Review of Books
('forms of imprint places, imprint names, and personal names as found in material printed before the middle of the nineteenth century - including variant spellings, forms in Latin and other languages, and fictitious names'; well over 800,000 records [December 2006] - Consortium of European Research Libraries). [Also ] CERL Thesaurus file (CT) here
ames of printing towns/a> ("English or other vernacular forms for the Latin names of printing towns as found in early printed books")
(additions to Seymour de Ricci and W. J. Wilson: 'the first part of a continuation of the Census of Medieval and Renaissance Manuscripts in the United States and Canada, published in 1935 and 1937, and its 1962 Supplement') Manuscripts. 'Directory of Institutions in the United States and Canada with Pre-1600 Manuscript Holdings'
(Klaus Graf) Manuscripts. 'Large Digital Libraries of western manuscripts'
(besides the listing of Laurence J. Schoenberg's own collection, this indexes a wide range of dealer and auction catalogues) Manuscripts. Schoenberg Database of Manuscripts
('Rare, Antiquarian, or Just Plain Old: Cataloging pre-Twentieth Century Cartographic Resources' - 65-page pdf slide show by Deborah J. Leslie, June 2007) 'Transcription of early letter forms & symbols'
(92,000 records - Hauptstaatsarchiv Stuttgart) Watermarks: 'Digital Publication of the "Piccard" Collection of Watermarks'
(click on 'Known paper databases' for links to online and print sources - The Bernstein Consortium) Watermarks. 'The memory of papers'
(4,591 'records' [=images?], with bibliographical records, including unpublished material from the Bricquet Archive in Geneva - University of Delaware). [Also ] Watermarks. 'Thomas L. Gravell Watermark Collection' here