> Raffles Hotel
Raffles Hotel
In central Singapore, located in the heart of the city’s cultural district is the legendary Raffles Hotel. First established in 1887 and probably the most famous hotel in Asia, Raffles Hotel has now been restored to combine modern facilities with the charm and old-world ambience of its colonial pedigree that so enchanted writers such as Somerset Maugham and Joseph Conrad. The grand dame’s colonial architecture, high ceilings, grand arches and gently purring ceiling fans create the light and airy feel of a gracious home. Facilities include 18 distinctive food and beverage outlets including the famous ‘Tiffin Room’ and ‘Long Bar’, home to the famous Singapore Sling. There are a series of beautiful courtyards and gardens, a roof top swimming pool and bar, a luxurious RafflesAmrita Spa and Raffles Hotel Arcade with over 40 shops, Raffles Culinary Academy, Raffles Hotel Museum and a theatre playhouse. All 103 elegantly furnished Courtyard Suite, surrounded by lush gardens, have a separate parlour, 24-hour personal Raffles Butler service, ceiling fan, air-conditioning, bath and shower, telephone, television and minibar.
Twohigs Touch
Receive fruit and flowers. Stay 2 consecutive nights, receive a bottle of champagne and 10% discount on all Raffles ‘Amrita’ Spa treatments. 01 Nov 2008 to 28 Feb 2009 and 01 May to 31 Aug 2009. Stay 2 consecutive nights, receive free daily breakfast and 1 complimentary afternoon tea for 2 persons at the bar and billiard room. Stay 3 consecutive nights, receive free daily breakfast and 1 complimentary buffet dinner for 2 persons at the bar and billiard room. (To qualify for any or all of the above offers, guests must start and complete their stay between the dates specified).Honeymoon Offer:
All Guests Offer:
Prices
Prices start from per person sharing for 5 nights in a Courtyard Suite on a bed & breakfast basis. Price includes flights with Air France via Paris, Lufthansa via Frankfurt or Swiss International Airlines via Zurich and airport transfers. Extra Nights start from per person per night.€1899€251