New Zealand
Magicz is a leader in the Internet Solutions industry; providing robust web hosting, dynamic web design, progressive programming solutions, powerful database integration, secure e-commerce applications and more. All customized and tailored to each client's requirements. Magicz provides professional services for small to medium sized businesses, secondary and post-secondary educational institutions, government agencies, various foundations, non-profit organizations and others. Headquartered in the North of the United Kingdom, and driven by progressive philosophies, Magicz has surpassed all its competitors. An expert team of programmers, designers and consultants work together, from various locations around the world, to provide unparalleled expertise in the Technology Services and Internet Solutions industries.
The world of computers is quickly shaping the way we do business and live our personal lives. The massive network known as the internet is largely responsible for this planet-wide movement. The internet and its chain of websites are becoming a vital tool for the modern day business strategy. Websites are now essential for establishing a professional business image and credibility. Magicz believes that every business, no matter how small, should and can have a quality website. Businesses that do not adapt are left behind. This has never been more true than it is in today's world of information technology. Now is the best and only time to explore the possibilities of this exciting new world.
The magic behind Magicz
Copyright 1998-2006 Magicz.com. All Rights Reserved. Please see our and our . If you have any questions or comments contact Acceptable Use Policy Privacy Policy
info@magicz.com , , web site hosting, ecommerce, web hosting services, cheap web hosting, reseller web hosting, domain host, ecommerce host, web page hosting, best web hosting, business hosting, Ecommerce web hosting, cheap webhosting, services, cheap web site hosting, affordable web hosting, business web hosting, best web hosting, small business web hostingweb hostingwebhostingweb hosting