The Raffles Tradition
School Vision
To be a World-Class School delivering a well-rounded education of the highest standards to the best and the brightest.
School Mission
To develop to the full the potential of our pupils, to foster commitment to excellence and to nurture outstanding citizens who will seek to serve the common good.
School Motto
Auspicium Melioris Aevi -- the motto, in Latin, neatly encapsulates the philosophy of Raffles Institution. The motto's meaning is "The Hope of a Better Age" and it symbolises our desire to be the hope for a better age.
Institution Anthem
When Stamford Raffles held the torch That cast Promethean Flame We faced the challenge of the day To give our school a name The eagle eye and gryphon strength They led us to the fore To reign supreme in ev'ry sphere The sons of Singapore Come heed the call Rafflesians all And let our hearts be stirring We'll do our best whateer the test And keep our colours flying Let comradeship and fervent hope With one voice make us pray Auspicium Melioris Aevi With God to guide the way composed by E W Jesudason, Headmaster 1963-1966
The Rafflesian Spirit
The Rafflesian Spirit is a feeling that stems from the mind as well as the heart. It is the feeling of belonging to a great and magnificent school. It is a sense of togetherness that binds and inspires every Rafflesian to give of his best and strive for.
Rafflesian Principle of Honour
In intellectual pursuit, I shall reflect discipline and passion for learning and in personal conduct, I shall live in integrity and regard individuals, groups and the community with kindness and respect, and in so doing, uphold the Rafflesian Principle of Honour.
The School Crest
The Medallions
The 2 medallions on the crest were presented to Sir Stamford Raffles by a Javanese prince. One bears an inscription in Arabic pledging loyalty and the other a dagger. They were incorporated into the crest in recognition of the services he rendered the British Empire in the East.
The Gryphon
The gryphon is a stately creature, majestic and strong. In our case, the gryphon is confidently entrenched within the crown, symbolising stability and success for the school.
The Eagle
The eagle has long been considered a symbol of power and majesty. One of the eagle's heads faces the past and other faces the future, symbolising our tradition of drawing strength from the past to work towards a better future.
1 Raffles Institution Lane, Singapore 575954. Tel: 63538830. Fax: 63538357.
© 2009 Raffles Institution.