About Google Earth
Google Earth (GE) was released by Google as a free application in June of 2005. Google describes it briefly as:
The idea is simple. It's a globe that sits inside your PC. You point and zoom to anyplace on the planet that you want to explore. Satellite images and local facts zoom into view. Tap into Google search to show local points of interest and facts. Zoom to a specific address to check out an apartment or hotel. View driving directions and even fly along your route.
Google released the product first for recent versions of Microsoft Windows XP or 2000. The Windows version is no longer beta as of 10-Jan-2006. The beta for Mac was also released on 10-Jan-2006. On June 12, Google released Google Earth 4 Beta simultaneously for Windows, Mac OSX, and Linux. Google Earth 4 was on January 8, 2007. . officially released Download information here
GE is based on a product called "Keyhole" which Google acquired when they purchased the company Keyhole in 2004. . You will need a decent computer with a 3D graphics card, and will find a broadband connection is best. If you have these things, you will find Google Earth one of the most amazing applications you have ever used.
To download (and see the required specifications) just go to Google's home page for Google Earth at and click on "Download Google Earth". If you meet the requirements they outline there, you're good to go! Or, just click here: . earth.google.com
For information on getting started, go to the . Google Earth Basics
About Google Earth Blog
This blog is not officially affiliated with Google. Google Earth Blog is dedicated to sharing the best news, interesting sights, technology, and happenings for Google Earth. You will find the most amazing and interesting Google Earth files and network links you can download right off the site. Learn how to take data from your GPS, map it into Google Earth, and share it with friends or the world. Learn when new releases of Google Earth come out, hear about new technologies and features, or check out the links to dozens of other Google Earth web sites.
When I first saw Google Earth I had the same feeling I had when Mosaic (the first real graphical web browser) was released in 1993. All sorts of amazing things are going to happen because of Google Earth. And, amazing things have already happened (just read this blog to see some of them). More amazing things are yet to come.
My intent is to provide content which will be interesting to both new and experienced users of Google Earth. There may be technical jargon, but I will try to explain or reference any such jargon to keep it understandable to the average user of Google Earth. Please if you think you have interesting material to share with others. write me
This blog and its author are not an official source of information on Google or Google Earth.
Interested in advertising on Google Earth Blog? Click here.
About Frank Taylor
Frank Taylor is an entrepreneur, a sailor, a pilot, a hiker, and avid technology user. He has extensive experience working with computer graphics and simulation technologies (including work on Space Shuttle and Space Station simulators while working at NASA). He also actively uses GPS technologies (sailing, flying, hiking), and regularly uses 3D graphics applications (such as Google Earth, flight simulators and 3D computer games). Frank also has a degree in Astronomy and Physics from the University of Arizona.
Google Earth has revolutionized the ability to visualize geospatial information and has raised awareness about the importance of tying information to location. Frank is constantly reading about new things people are doing with Google Earth, and following closely the developments of new features and plans at Google. This blog is Frank's attempt to sift and share the best information on Google Earth with the rest of the world.
You can send me e-mail: frank - at - gearthblog.com
Location
Google Earth Blog's office is located in the Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. The office is part of the entrepreneurial center known as . You can view it in , or in . First Flight Venture Center Google Earth here