This page is a list of the .Characters of NX Files
Alain Moussi - Spike, Ronin [1]
Stephan Roy - Rex
John Purchase - Mr. Black, Mr Brown, NXISS
Sylvie Genest - The Prefect
Matthew Danielson - Lord Tragos (Episodes 3 to 8)
Eric Robert - Lord Tragos (Episodes 11 & 12)
Marc-Andr Terrieault - Malak
Erik Jobin - The Hybrid (Episode 10)
Marc-Andr Gauthier - Kruz
Portrayed by
Patrick Beriault
[] edit History
Rio is a member of Team Xtreme and a 2nd degree black belt in Mugen Budo. Rio lives life to the fullest. He s a bit of a thrill seeker, and at times will get himself into situations that would make even the most daring cringe! Sensei
With extensive training with the NX Secret, Rio has achieved Macaco Budo. Incredible agility and fluidity is not the only advantages of this power, Rio is also able to momentarily defy the laws of gravity to walk on walls, climb and jump very high.
In the siege of episode 112 - , Rio confronted . He quickly realised that kicks and punches were no match against the brute strength of the Oni-Clone. Using his power, Rio confused , tied him up with rope, trapping him while heavy skids and wooden crates fell on him, finally putting him out of action. Full Circle Ronin Ronin
Portrayed by
Alain Moussi
is a in . He is based upon and portrayed by Alain Moussi, co-owner of NX Martial Arts and Fitness. He is a lead character in the show.Spike fictional character NX Files Renshi
[] edit History
Spike is one of NX Team Xtreme s dynamic leaders, and its highest ranking member. Spike holds a 4th degree black belt in the art of Mugen Budo . It has been several years since Spike, his best friends and formed the elite Martial Arts group Team Xtreme. Renshi Jiu-Jitsu Rex Tornado
Spike is head strong, a natural leader and a passionate teacher and student of the . He is no doubt the most serious member of the Team, calm and always focused. His fighting style is powerful but fluid, his kicks are precise and effective. martial arts
He has developed the ability of Phantom and can create fighting apparitions of himself at will. Although Phantom Budo is an incredibly powerful ability, Spike has yet to fully develop this awesome fighting technique. Budo
He has also shown a slight use of Mystic Budo from time to time. In episode 108 - Origins II Enter Lord Tragos, he was able to open the door even when was forcing it closed. telekinetically Tornado
Spike is the only member of the team who has had frequent council from the strange beings known as and . They have guided him and warned him of the strange and unbelievable events that have taken part so far. Mr. Black Mr. Brown
During the siege of Full Circle, Spike was the first to encounter the fury of . Spike managed to overtake the deadly and defeat him. Akuma demon
Unfortunately, Spike was not so lucky when the evil Lord confronted and attacked the team in the warehouse. overpowered Spike and attempted to use his Kara Takai Technique but Spike resisted. then appeared out of the ether and told Spike to let go . Spike finally put his faith in and succumbed to the powerful dark forces of . Tragos Tragos Mr. Black Mr. Black Tragos
[] edit Ronin History
Ronin is an Oni- of . He looks identical to but has red hair and a large black tattoo that covers most of his right arm and shoulder. Clone Spike Spike
Although he possesses the same physical characteristics as , he is in fact quite different. In battle, Ronin does not utilize the same finesse as ; he prefers to quickly overpower and destroy his opponent. Spike Spike
Ronin was first attempt at creating an Oni-Clone; however it may not be his last. Tragos
Ronin first proved his worth by fighting top student . During the final siege of Full Circle, Ronin confronted the amazing Sensei in battle. Ronin dominated this fight however he was outwitted by s brilliant strategy and use of the unpredictable Macaco . Using a long tie-down strap, tangled his blood thirsty opponent and left him trapped while heavy wooden crates and skids fell upon him. Tragos Malak Rio Rio Budo Rio
Portrayed by
Stephan Roy
is a in . He is based upon and portrayed by Stephan Roy, co-owner of NX Martial Arts and Fitness. He is a lead character in the show.Rex fictional character NX Files Sensei
[] edit History
Rex is the other brave leader of Team Xtreme. Rex holds a 3rd Dan in Mugen Budo and a master at numerous weapons and fighting systems just like his lifelong friends and . Sometimes the joker, he is adept at keeping the Team on their toes, even at the most inopportune times! Sensei Jiu-Jitsu Spike Tornado
Through his training with the NX Secret, Rex has developed the power of Sonic Budo. With this lightning speed ability, he can tip the odds, no matter how crazy the circumstances.
Apart from the villainous Lord who threatens the whole team, Rex seems to have found his own nemesis; . These two characters first crossed swords in The Infiltrator when the slimy attempted to infiltrate the Dojo and steal the NX Secret. Tragos Malak Malak
During the events of Full Circle, confronted Rex for the second time; he was forced to run away once again as Rex proved too powerful for him. These humiliating defeats only fuel s anger and determination. It is safe to say that Rex has not seen the last of his . Malak Malak nemesis
Portrayed by
Marc Knowles
[] edit History
Sniper is a member of Team Xtreme and a 2nd degree black belt in Mugen Budo. He is the technology guru of the group; he holds an advanced doctorate in computer sciences. Sniper created and built most of the systems in the NX Chambers including the quirky NX Intelligence Security System (NXISS). Sensei
The NX Secret has given Sniper the power of Accu Budo; enhanced vision and reflexes make his punches and kicks incredibly fast and precise. A single strike delivered to a vital nerve is usually enough for Sniper to incapacitate an opponent.
During the events of Parallel Terror, Sniper attempted a radical experiment - he connected his computer systems directly into the NX Secret in order to provide NXISS with an unlimited source of power. The experiment failed and created a rift in the space-time fabric. A rift is an unstable portal or doorway to another dimension, and/or another time.
Sniper was the first to encounter a Hybrid, who emerged from the rift. With the help of , Sniper defeated the hyena-like beast. In a final noble act of sacrifice, Sniper jumped through the rift in order to close it, trapping himself on the other side. Mr. Black
Portrayed by
Peter Moscone Marc Knowles Alain Moussi Eric Gratton
is a in . He has been portrayed by Peter Moscone, Marc Knowles, Alain Moussi and Eric Gratton.Akuma fictional character NX Files
[] edit Akuma History
Akuma is an evil demon spirit created by Mugen Kurai. The demons essence and spirit reside within his mask. However, in order to interact and fight in the physical world, Akuma requires a body, a host. Once Akuma s mask comes in contact with someone s face, he immediately possesses the victim and gains complete control of him or her.
Akuma is recognizable by his red and black gi, black eyes and of course, his dark red mask. Akuma is an exceptional fighter, very quick and agile; his kicks even rival s. He has a unique fighting style but will also inherit the styles of whoever he possesses. Akuma does not have a specific special ability like others but he does however have certain capabilities that are out of this world. Spike
Portrayed by
Emilie Lavoie
[] edit History
Katana brings grace and refinement to Team Xtreme. She holds a 1st degree back belt in Mugen Budo Jiu-Jitsu and is an adept at many weapons and fighting styles. She is a cool customer when facing off against any opponent. She is known for her swift and strong techniques, and can easily defeat her opponents. Sensei
Through training with the NX Secret, Katana developed Mystic Budo. She has telepathy and very unusual but strong psychic abilities. Reading someone s thoughts, sending telepathic messages, making people believe what she wants them to, etc these are only a few examples of what this powerful young martial artist can do.
Prior to the discovery of the NX Secret, Katana was in a deep and loving relationship with . They seemed inseparable - until became corrupted by Mugen Kurai and tried to kill his friends. In Origins 2 Enter Lord Tragos, defeated , and in his attempt to steal the NX Secret. Katana tried to talk him out of it; he struck her with an energy blast that should have killed her but as explains in Origins 3 Mugen Kurai, something intervened . Tornado Tornado Tornado Spike Spike Sniper Mr. Brown
In Full Circle, Katana was the first member of Team Xtreme to reach the level of Kimaven. Unconscious and unable to help her team mates, she was somehow still psychically able to feel the pain of her defeated and dying friends. This gave her the edge she needed to transform into Kimaven. With this extraordinary and seemingly unlimited power, she easily defeated Lord . After killing the dark lord, Katana was struck with a shockwave that knocked her out of her Kimaven stage and rendered her unconscious. Tragos
Portrayed by
Hadi Karkach
[] edit History
Sabre is a 2nd degree black belt in Mugen Budo Jiu-Jitsu and a member of Team Xtreme. He is a brilliant intellect and is very knowledgeable in any subject. An exceptional fighter, Sabre also has the unique ability to talk himself out of any situation. Sensei
The NX Secret has amplified Sabre s natural abilities and given him the power of Cogno Budo. Sabre sees patterns and clarity where others see only confusion. By examining his environment and his opponent s movements, Sabre can anticipate the outcome of a fight.
Using this sixth sense , Sabre had no difficulty engaging a Phantom Ninja in Revelations. During Full Circle, Sabre met his match while fighting . exceptional use of Macaco Budo made it almost impossible for Sabre to calculate her movements. After suffering quite a beating, Sabre was finally able to calculate the outcome. He lured precisely where he wanted trapped and humiliated behind a loading dock door. Saris Saris Saris
Portrayed by
Robert Baldwin
[] edit History
Krush is a 2nd degree black belt in Mugen . He was the last member to join Team Xtreme; little is known of his past. Krush is quiet type; in combat however, he fights emotionally which seems to fuel his power but as Mr. Black said in Calm Before the Storm: this could potentially be a problem . Sensei Budo
The NX Secret has given Krush the power of Iron Budo. His strength is unrivaled, his punches are destructive. Apart from , the only ninja able to face Krush in a fair fist fight is . Tragos Rico
In Full Circle, surprised Krush with his own use of Iron Budo but it wasn t long before an annoyed and angry Krush overpowered Rico with his brute strength and determination and threw him into a large wooden crate. Rico
[] edit Mr. Black and Mr. Brown
[] edit History
and are a in . He is portrayed by John Purchase.Mr. BlackMr. Brown fictional character NX Files
Black and Brown belong to a secret order known as the "Archons". Archons are tasked with maintaining balance throughout the physical universe. In their native form, Archons are pure energy. Archons are enlightened beings; they have long evolved from the physical form. Black and Brown have taken corporial form to help blend in while on Earth.
Archons have minds that have developed far beyond the confines of human intellect. They have powers that include instant translocation, psychokinetics, and simultaneous interdimensional existence. Although non-corproial, every archon still possess skills amazing combat, statesman and teaching skills.
Among the Archons, Mr. Black is the most senior and powerful member.
Black has an alter-being called Mr. Brown. Brown is less experienced than Black. This is apparent as he is much more eager to fight or even destroy an entire planet just to bring an issue to an end.
Mr. Black and Mr. Brown first appear on Earth to investigate energy disturbances and episodes of imbalance coinciding with the accidental discovery of the NX Secret.
Archons and their governing counsel dispise Hybrids. The sentiment is equally shared by the Hybrid brood.
[] edit History
Tornado holds a 3rd degree black belt in Mugen Budo as well as black belts in many other martial arts including Karate. He was the third leader of Team Xtreme along and . Even before discovering the NX Secret, Tornado was always a master at flying kicks and incredible jumps, flips and spins. It is no wonder he got the name Tornado . Sensei Spike Rex
After discovering the NX Secret, Tornado achieved a form of Mystic Budo. His power however, is quite different than that of s. He has very minimal telepathic abilities but extremely developed telekinetic powers. Using only his mind, he can move objects, throw people around, jump extremely high and even levitate for short periods of time. Katana
Prior to the discovery of the NX Secret, Tornado and were in love and seemingly destined to marry. This all changed when Tornado s mind became confused and corrupted. For reasons unknown, Tornado s exposure to the NX Secret attracted the dark powers of Mugen Kurai. These evil powers fed his mind with hate and greed, so much so that he became jealous and paranoid of his friends. The more he trained with the NX Secret, the more powerful these negative feelings became. This eventually manifested a new tragic personality inside him; an alter-ego that called itself . Katana Tragos
After being asked to leave by his own team mates in Origins 2 Enter Lord Tragos, Tornado s rage overcame him. Driven by his alter-ego Tragos, not even his beloved could persuade him to stop. In his final confrontation with and , Tornado allowed to take control. He transformed and became the dark lord himself. Katana Spike Rex Tragos
Reduced to only a voice in head, Tornado regretted his destructive actions and wanted to go back to the way things were. Tragos
In a final symbolic act in Origins 3 Mugen Kurai, crushes a picture in the palm of his hand, silencing the last remaining echoes of his former life. Tornado, the kind and loving Tornado, ceased to exist. Tragos
Mystic Budo Oni-Kurai Kara Takai
First Appearance
Portrayed by
Matthew Danielson Eric Robert
is a in . He was Portrayed by Matthew Danielson in episodes 3 to 8 in season 1. He is now portrayed by Eric Robert.Lord Tragos fictional character NX Files
[] edit History
Lord Tragos is Team Xtreme s and the leader of the Kurai Kai. He is an exceptional martial artist and a dangerously powerful practitioner of Mugen Kurai. He wears a long black cloak, mostly used to intimidate his followers but prefers to fight in a black gi and traditional pants. nemesis hakama
Tragos still mainly uses s Mystic Budo powers but as since learned many more abilities. Speed, strength, agility, accuracy are only some of the advantages the evil lord possesses. He has also learned how to manipulate energy and on occasion, rise to the level of Oni-Kurai. Tornado
Lord Tragos was originally a founding member of Team Xtreme. He was known as . When became corrupted by Mugen Kurai, the newly created personality named Tragos took over. In his first confrontation with Team Xtreme, Tragos was soundly defeated. Tornado Tornado
After this battle, Tragos seemingly stumbled onto the Book of Mugen Kurai. From this book, his thirst for power grew stronger. He recruited young gang members, trained them and formed the Kurai Kai. was his first student and remains his right hand man. Malak
Although he grows stronger every day with the Book of Mugen Kurai, Tragos still obsesses over the NX Secret; he needs it to satisfy his unending hunger for greater and greater power. After many failed attempts by his to recover the Secret, Tragos devised a plan to lure Team Xtreme to his hideout. He planned to kill them then simply take NX Secret afterwards. ninjas
In his final combat in Full Circle, Lord Tragos defeated Team Xtreme and even killed their leader Spike with his Kara Takai ability. He thought victory was his when suddenly an unconscious transformed into Kimaven in a blinding explosion of power. Tragos powered up to Oni-Kurai but it still wasn t enough to destroy her. Tragos died hearing s final words: goodbye . Katana Katana Tornado