This Day in Video Game History: December 18
Article by Pipedreamergrey (17,397 pts )
Published on Dec 18, 2008
Today marks the birth of two of the most prolific game franchises in history, Final Fantasy and Mario Party. Read more in "This Day in Video Game History", a chronology of notable business, film, game, and media events in and related to the video game industry on this day in history.
5 views
This Day in Video Game History
using the software, you agree to: the transfer of advertising data to servers located outside of your country of residence the collection and use of advertising data the delivery of advertising and marketing content."
1987
Square Co. releases for the Famicom in Japan. The game would go on to spawn one of the most successful franchises in history.
Final Fantasy
Enix released the video game for the Super Famicom in Japan.Dragon Quest I & II Remix
1995
People Weekly magazine quotes pop singer Whitney Houston as saying, He played me like I was Atari in reference to how masterfully her latest beau had swept her off her feet.
1998
Nintendo released for the Nintendo 64 in Japan. The game would go on to spawn one of the most successful franchises in history.
Mario Party
2000
Activision released the first-person shooter for Windows in North America. (ESRB: M)Quake III: Team Arena
LucasArts released the vehicular combat game for the Nintendo 64 in the North America. (ESRB: T)Star Wars: Episode I Battle for Naboo
Newsweek magazine published an article entitled What ever happened to PlayStation 2? In the article, Newsweek reported on a Tokyo, Japan-based conference held in late November. According to information gathered at the conference, gamers had been expressing wide-spread discontent over the new titles for the PlayStation 2 and had turned to using their consoles primarily as DVD players. The article further speculated, based on the trends it reported, that the over-engineered PlayStation 2 might consequently loose Sony some two hundred million dollars in the long-run.
2003
Atari released first-person shooter for Windows in the U.S. (ESRB: M)Unreal II: The Awakening Special Edition
KB Toys announced that it had decided to discontinue the sale of video games in hundreds of its stores across the U.S., citing lackluster sales as the cause. Of the chains thirteen hundred stores, KB estimated that over four hundred stores would be affected.
Midway released the game compilation Midway Arcade Treasures, including: , , , , , and , for the GameCube in the U.S. (ESRB: T)720 DegreesGauntletMarble MadnessPaperboyRampartSpy Hunter
Rockstar Games released for the Game Boy Advance in the U.S. ESRB: M (Mature)Max Payne
2005
The History Channel aired a two hour documentary entitled Brothers in Arms that used simulations created with Ubisofts game video game to illustrate real-world historical missions of the 101st Airborne and 502nd Parachute Infantry during the invasion of Normandy on D-Day.Brothers in Arms: Road to Hill 30
2006
California state Assembly woman Lori Saldana of San Diego announced that she would be introducing a bill to the state's legislature that would prohibit in-game advertising and spyware from being installed onto users' computers without notice during a game's installation process. Saldana cites EA's as a positive example of the practice she would like to see all video games follow. includes a card in its box reading, "By installing andBattlefield 2142Battlefield 2142