CafePress customer service
Payment, Coupons, Passport Rewards, Gift Cards and Certificates (top)
We accept credit card payment in the form of American Express, Discover, Mastercard and Visa. We also accept and as a form of payment.What methods of payment do you accept? (top)
PayPal® Bill Me Later®
PayPal is the trusted leader in online payments, enabling buyers and businesses to send and receive money online. PayPal has more than 100 million member accounts in 103 countries and regions. It's accepted by merchants everywhere, including eBay. .What is PayPal? (top)
Learn more
Bill Me Later is a convenient and secure payment method designed for purchases on the web or over the phone. As a credit account, Bill Me Later provides you with the flexibility to purchase without using your credit card. Purchases are subject to credit approval. . Please note that Bill Me Later is not available for video download purchases.What is Bill Me Later? (top)
Learn More
Discovery Store does not have access to any information on Bill Me Later's credit decision. Bill Me Later will send a letter detailing the reason for their decision within 30 days.Why was my order declined by Bill Me Later? (top)
Your card identification number (CID) is a unique 3 or 4-digit number printed on your credit card. This number acts as an additional security measure by verifying that the card is with you during purchase. It is not stored in any of our systems and is only used to protect you from online fraud. As a result, you will have to enter it every time you purchase from our site even if your other account information is securely stored with Discovery Store.What is my Card ID #? (top)
As you complete your order through our online store, you'll be asked for your name, address and credit card information. We use Secure Socket Layer (SSL) - the leading data encryption technology on the Internet - to send this personal information in an encrypted code to our servers. Only Discovery Store can decode your encrypted information. Plus, this data is stored on a protected server. (Please do not e-mail your order to Discovery Store as we cannot guarantee the privacy or security of information transmitted via e-mail.) For more information on the safety of ordering online at Discovery Store, please review our policies.Is it safe to use my credit card online? (top)
Privacy & Security
Enter the coupon code in the coupon field on the shopping cart page and complete your order. You may only enter one coupon code per order. How do I apply a coupon towards my order? (top)
Refer to specific coupon exclusions for details. Most telescopes and other items with additional shipping charges, for example, are excluded from free shipping offers. Telescopes and telescope accessories are also excluded from percent off coupons. Gift box, taxes, duties and shipping do not apply toward the minimum order value associated with our coupon codes. Discovery Store coupon offers cannot be attributed to orders made through Excitations.com, Gaiam.com or CafePress.com.What products or services are not eligible for coupon offers? (top)
You can redeem valid Passport Rewards certificates by entering your Passport Member Number and reward certificate(s) in checkout and completing your order. You can also redeem your certificates through the Discovery Store Catalog. The entire reward certificate must be used in one visit; any unused portion will be forfeited. You may enter up to eight reward certificates online. Passport Rewards are not valid on Excitations.com, CafePress.com, Gaiam.com or other partner web-sites. For questions pertaining to the Passport Rewards Program, please call 1-800-814-3137. How do I redeem Passport Rewards certificates? (top)
You can buy gift cards online. for more information or to purchase. You can also redeem gift cards and electronic gift certificates as well as presentation gift certificates online. To redeem a card or certificate online, enter the gift card and PIN# or certificate number(s) in the appropriate fields on the Shipping Method page in checkout and complete your order. You may enter up to three gift card or certificate numbers online. You will see the amount of your credit deducted from your overall order total on the Order Summary page of checkout before you submit you order. Any remaining balance on the order will need to be paid by credit card. Electronic gift certificates can be redeemed online only, but are no longer available for purchase. How do I buy and redeem gift cards and certificates online? (top)
Click here
Gift cards and certificates should be used within 1 year of issue date. When does my gift card or certificate expire? (top)
You may contact us in the US at 800-889-9950 to obtain the balance of your Gift Card. How do I check the balance of my Gift Card? (top)
Yes, Discovery Store does have a corporate gifts program. Visit our for more information and for instructions on how to participate. Do you have a corporate gifts program? (top)
corporate gifts page
Discovery Store coupon offers and Passport Rewards cannot be attributed to orders made through CafePress.com, Excitations.com, Gaiam.com or other partner web-sites. Can I redeem Discovery Store coupons and Passport Rewards on my CafePress custom fan gear, Discovery Experiences Excitations or Gaiam.com order? (top)
Shipping & Returns (top)
Discovery Store bases its shipping charges on your merchandise total. To review rates for orders within the United States, visit our page. To review rates for orders to international addresses, visit our page.How much shipping and handling will I pay? (top)
Shipping International Orders
We generally ship items as soon as they become available. If you receive multiple shipments due to some items on backorder, you will not be charged additional shipping & handling for each shipment. Please note: International orders containing more than one item will usually be shipped together.Do I have to pay shipping & handling for each shipment on my order? (top)
Yes, some of our larger products require shipping and handling charges in addition to normal shipping rates. Please reference product pages for information on particular items. Do oversized products require additional shipping charges? (top)
We use a number of different carriers based on the size, weight and location of your package. Depending on the service you select, your package could be delivered by UPS, USPS, or Freight carrier. Some UPS Services partner with the USPS for final delivery of your package. What shipping carriers do you use? (top)
Select large and heavy items are delivered by In-Home delivery service as indicated on product pages. In-Home delivery is a great value and includes: What is In-Home Delivery? (top)
Delivery inside customer's residence (does not include assembly)
Expedited delivery time of just five to six business days
Delivery by appointment within a four hour window
These noted items ship from the manufacturer of the product as opposed to shipping from the Discovery Store facility. When purchasing one of these items, please note: Some items indicate they ship "directly from the manufacturer," what does that mean? (top)
Only Standard Delivery is available.
If ordering the item as a gift, gift box is not available and the product packaging may reveal the contents.
These items can not be delivered internationally or to P.O. Boxes, APO or FPO addresses.
Discovery Store offers an exchange or refund for the full purchase amount of most items returned within 30 days of delivery. After 30 days, we offer an exchange or store credit in the amount of the current selling price (excludes Meade telescopes and accessories). Holiday gifts may be returned before January 15, 2009 for an exchange or refund, and after this date for an exchange or store credit. Additional terms apply. Please see our page for more details. What is the Discovery Store return policy? (top)
Return Policy
In the unlikely event that a product arrives damaged, please use our convenient online or call us toll-free in the US at 1-800-889-9950. We will send a carrier to your home to pick up the product at no extra cost to you.What if my product arrives damaged? (top)
e-mail form
Using My Account (top)
Setting up and maintaining an account will simplify your shopping experience at DiscoveryStore.com. Log in and start benefiting from our convenient account services, like a personal address book that simplifies your shipping choices, securely saved credit card information, and our timely order tracking program to monitor all your orders.What is the benefit of setting up an account? (top)
Create an account here.
For privacy reasons, you must be 13 or older to create an account on our site.Why am I being asked for my date of birth? (top)
Go to and select to update your password. If you haven't already logged in, you'll be asked to log in with your e-mail address and current password. You'll then come to a screen that gives you the option to change your personal information. Simply fill in the fields you'd like to change and select when you're done.How do I change my password? (top)
My Account Account InfoUpdate
Go to and click on the “Forgot your password?” link to reset it. A temporary password will be e-mailed to you.If I misplace my password, how do I retrieve it? (top)
My Account
Go to and log in with your e-mail address and password. Select to make changes to your account, to make changes to your personal address book, and to update your credit card settings. How do I update my account information? (top)
My Account Account InfoAddress BookCredit Card Info
Go to , log in with your e-mail address and password, and select to view the status of all your recent orders in your account. How do I view my order history? (top)
Product Information (top)
If you have a question about a product, please use our convenient online to submit questions to our knowledgeable Customer Care Representatives or call us toll-free in the US at 1-800-889-9950.What if I have a question about a product? (top)
e-mail form
Yes, Discovery Store does offer DVDs of some programs that air on our networks. However, many network programs are unavailable for purchase on DVD. If you can't find a specific program when browsing through our site or when using our search function, then we do not currently offer it online. Please let us know of your interest in a currently unavailable program by submitting a DVD request through our online .Does Discovery Store sell videos of programs seen on Discovery Channel, TLC, Animal Planet and Discovery Health? (top)
customer comments form
Discovery Store DVDs are in DVD-5 format and are compatible with all consumer DVD players with Region 1 encoding (US and Canada only). If you have a DVD player from another region, please refer to our list of for titles that wAre Discovery Store DVDs compatible with my DVD player? (top)