Welcome to The Official Trillium Miata Website!
Last Updated (Wednesday, 20 August 2008 14:06)Written by AdministratorThursday, 05 January 2012 13:30
The Trillium Miata Club has chapters in Toronto and London, Ontario. We have over 190 cars and 300 people in our club. Join us at our monthly meetings or on one of our tours. On almost any weekend, you'll find our members, discovering some of the best touring roads in Ontario, Quebec and the northern U.S.A. We have many activities to offer any Miata owner, from touring, driving clinics to performance & accessory modifications, tech & detailing clinics, as well as brunches, BBQs and regular ice cream runs. JOIN US!
Membership in the Trillium Miata Club provides you with the opportunity to learn more about your car and its care. This learning experience is based on shared experiences and friendship with other Miata owners. We love to talk about our cars almost as much as we love to drive them. Our monthly meetings are a great place to discuss service, performance, socialize or wonder what the 2009 Miata will look like. Mostly, our meetings are about Miata-tude... that's what owning a Miata is all about.
Please browse through our website and feel free to provide us with your comments or questions.
We'd like to thank Mazda Canada for their ongoing support of the Trillium Miata Club. A big thanks also to all of the Club volunteers. It is their effort and membership dues that make everything we do possible.
Please note that guests are welcome at any of our meetings, day tours and activities, but overnight tours are open only to members. So please come out and experience Trillium during one of our day activities and then become a member of our great club.
  
President's Column February 2009
Last Updated (Tuesday, 30 November 1999 00:00)Written by Elizabeth BurnsWednesday, 21 January 2009 01:09Happiness lies in the joy of achievement and the thrill of creative effort.Franklin Roosevelt
Well, if the results of our first planning meeting are any indication, Trillium Miata Club members are going to be happy throughout 2009.
This was the first time we had a planning meeting and I think it went well.Lots of members volunteered to lead tours and we had some great suggestions for meeting locations.We even chatted about various non-Miata activities.
The results will be published in Miata Miles once the details are finalized.
The only issue which wasnt resolved was that we are still looking for someone to take over the final details for our members-only Vermont weekend trip in May.The hotel has been booked. Bob, Brenda and Tom are ready to lead tours once our group gets there.Everything is available from previous trips and we have a couple of past organizers ready to help answer any questions.
Since weve been running this tour since 1992, it would be a shame if it didnt happen this year.Please let John Flowers know if you are available to take on this challenge.
During the meeting, we discussed some date changes for our monthly meetings.Theyll be included in the activities calendar, but please make sure you make note of these dates:
April  moved to Apr. 5th
May  moved to May 24th
Oct  moved to Oct. 4th
It certainly was fun planning our touring season  sort of takes the edge off the incredibly cold and snowy weather weve had so far.
Stay tuned  its going to be a great 2009 with the best car in the world.
Liz  
Trillium West Website is Moving
Last Updated (Saturday, 16 August 2008 11:47)Written by Richard SorrentinoTuesday, 06 May 2008 21:56
Trillium West's website has moved to . http://www3.sympatico.ca/rsorrent/
Please go there to check us our. Miata enthusiasts of all ages are welcome to join our local chapter.
Dick Sorrentino
Trillium West President and Web Manager
  
Last Updated (Friday, 29 February 2008 11:14)Wednesday, 27 February 2008 03:54
It's here and you might have seen it at the Toronto Auto Show.
The new Mazda Furai concept car is here..
The Furai, which translates to "sound of wind", is built on a Courage C65 chassis that was campaigned by Mazda in the 2005 ALMS season. It features a fully-running three-rotor Mazda 20B rotary engine that runs on E100 ethanol and produces around 450 horsepower.
Could this hint that Mazda is going to once again join the LeMans racing league?
Mazda is the only Japanese manufacturer to have won the prestigous LeMans back in 1991.
--