We're sorry, but this discussion has just been closed to further replies.
Tobacco: A Triple Threat to Dogs and Cats
View full list....
It makes sense that second-hand smoke affects the health of our pets, but our furry friends suffer a triple-threat from tobacco. In addition to the obvious danger of lung cancer, dogs and cats lick the residual tar and nicotine from their coats, which can cause mouth and throat cancers. Curious animals also face potentially fatal nicotine poisoning from eating any tobacco products they find.
A Tuft's University study found that cats living in homes with smokers are more than twice as likely than other cats to acquire feline lymphoma cancer. This type of cancer was previously thought to occur as a result of feline leukemia. In a Science Daily report, Dr. Antony Moore of Tuft's said, "The results of our study clearly indicate that exposure to environmental factors such as second-hand tobacco smoke has devastating consequences for cats because it significantly increases their likelihood of contracting lymphoma."
According to an Associated Press report, "In households where they were exposed five years or more, cats had more than triple the risk. In a two-smoker household, the risk went up by a factor of four." In some cases, cats were at higher risk for cancer than humans living in the same home.
Dogs living with smokers show increased risk for lung and nasal cavity cancers. Long-nosed dogs like Retrievers have a larger nasal surface area, which accumulates carcinogens from smoke. Shorter-nosed breeds such as Pugs show an increased risk of lung cancer. This research was conducted at the Colorado State University (CSU) School of Veterinary Medicine by Professor John Reif, who has been studying the effects of second-hand smoke on dogs since 1992.
Symptoms of lung cancer in dogs include chronic coughing, weight loss and fatigue. Symptoms of nasal cancer include swelling around the nose or sinus areas, bloody nasal discharge and sneezing.
The best solution is to keep your pets' environment smoke and tobacco free. Smokers who share their homes with pets should smoke outside and be very careful about disposing of cigarette butts so that animals can't eat them.
Ask anyone who takes care of your pet about their smoking habits, and make sure to tour any petsitting or pet day care facilities with tobacco awareness in mind.