Realestate
The culture of the Gulf is rich and varied, from desert Bedouin tradition to the colourful African influences of Oman. Dubai Government is keen to showcase its people's heritage, having built several heritage villages where local people display their crafts and skills. The Dubai Community Theatre (website: ) is currently being planned as a major venue for cultural performances. As a multicultural city, visitors can enjoy bellydancers from Turkey and Egypt, pop singers from Lebanon, and traditional Emirati stick dancing, The Creative Art Centre , Al-Jumeirah Road (tel: (04) 344 4394; website: - ) is a hive of cultural activity, which runs from Saturday to Wednesday. Mornings are reserved for young children, afternoons for older children and, during winter, evenings are set aside for adult classes. A wide range of cultural and handicraft activities are covered. The Dubai International Arts Centre , off Al-Jumeirah Road (tel: (04) 344 4398), offers a similar range, as well as art displays, with works for sale. Dubai is increasingly attracting major international stars to perform, such as Mariah Carey, Enrique Iglesias and Elton John. The dance scene is active with many top DJs from Europe and the UK guesting at the many nightclubs. For classical music and ballet, the Dubai International Congress Centre , Dubai World Trade Centre, Bur Dubai (tel: (04) 331 4200; website: ), and The Crowne Plaza Hotel , Sheik Zayed Road (tel: (04) 331 1111), are the main venues hosting visiting orchestras and musicians from around the world, including feature shows such as Michael Flatley's Riverdance. Many hotels employ talented pianists, harpists and lounge singers. Arabic nightclubs (see Dance) are the main venues for traditional Arabian music. The Indian Playhouse , Intercontinental Hotel (tel: (04) 222 7171), features performances by Burjor Patel Productions and hosts the travelling British Airways Playhouse , which makes frequent visits to Dubai. Dubai Drama Group (tel: (04) 333 1155; website: ) is an amateur theatrical company with over 100 members. The British Touring Shakespeare Company (website: ) also frequently visits the emirate. Dubai's first purpose-built Community Theatre is still in the fundraising and planning stages. Dubai has a number of dance schools, including the renowned Ballet Centre , behind Jumeirah Plaza (tel: (04) 344 9776), with ballet, jazz, tap and modern dance on offer. In addition, belly dancing and traditional dance are a mainstay in Arabic nightclubs, such as Al-Diwan , Metropolitan Palace Hotel (tel: (04) 227 0000), and Escoba , Al-Khaleej Palace Hotel (tel: (04) 223 1000), as well as on the popular desert safari trips, run by companies such as Arabian Adventures. From Hollywood to Bollywood, cinema is huge in Dubai. There are a number of cinemas for one to choose from, including Al Massa Bustan , Al Bustan Centre (tel: (04) 263 3444; website: ), and Frand Cineplex , adjacent to Wafi City (tel: (04) 324 0000), which provide English-language films. Big-budget Hollywood blockbusters are the mainstay, with awardwinning independent and arthouse films also popular. Dubai provides many fascinating opportunities for visitors and residents to learn about its rich Islamic heritage. The highlight of the year is the Holy Month of Ramadan, when local people will invite Muslims and non-Muslims alike to break each day's fast at sunset, with traditional delicacies. Feasting takes place at night, with the emphasis on charity and family life. Eid Al-Fitr follows Ramadan with three days of holiday and celebration. As a travel hub, Dubai's airport is never busier than at Eid Al-Adha, a four-day festival when Muslims make the Haj pilgrimage to Mecca, Saudi Arabia's holiest city. Because these holidays are based on the Islamic calendar, their dates change each year. Non Islamic holidays such as Christmas, Easter and Diwali are not official public holidays, but Dubai's huge tolerance and respect for other religions means expatriates are free to celebrate. Hotels offer everything from traditional Christmas festivities to romantic Valentine meals, and shops and supermarkets stock gifts and cards for all occasions. Public holidays not associated with the Islamic calendar include UAE National Day, celebrated on 2nd December. Father of Dubai: Sheik Rashid Bin Saeed al Maktoum (1999) by Graeme Wilson is a detailed tribute to the founder of Dubai that gets to the heart of the Emirate. Arabia Through the Looking Glass (1979), by Jonathan Raban, covers the region as a whole but also has an illuminating section on Dubai. Dubai Tales (1991) by Muhammad al-Murr gives a local perspective, with his famed short stories fleshing a bit of colour into the place. Muhammed al-Murr is one of the most revered local writers and it is worthwhile trying to get a copy of his other famous book, The Wink of the Mona Lisa (1994). Dubai - An Arabian Album (1992) by Ronald Codrai is a good pictorial look at Dubai. The Emirates (1995) by Kevin Higgins is a look at all of the United Arab Emirates and puts Dubai in clear context. The Emirates by the First Photographers (2002) by William Facey and Gillian Grant shows the sheer scale of change in Dubai and the other emirates, over the last century. From the Desert to the Derby (2002) by Jason Levin gives an insight into the machinations and ambitions of Dubai's ruling family, with a look at their attempt to train a horse to win America's richest horse race.
Dubai Culture