East Ridge High School (Florida)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to: , navigation search
This article . or sources affiliated with the subject are generally not sufficient for a Wikipedia article. Please add more appropriate from .needs that appear in reliable third-party publications references Primary sources citations reliable sources
(February 2008)
is a school in and one of seven public high schools in . East Ridge is the largest school in Lake County. It was however intended to hold only 1,800 students at the most, This was not large enough for the ever growing population of Clermont it has more than doubled in the last five years. In total there are 3,084 Students enrolled as of January 14th. East Ridge has a good reputation and is known for its athletic programs as well as its band department receiving many national and state awards. The picture displayed is from 2002, now there is a new building labeled the "Freshman Building" officially building 21.East Ridge High School Clermont, Florida Lake County
East Ridge High School
[] edit History
East Ridge High School was constructed at 13322 Excalibur Road in . It is currently the newest high school in . The school was built to stop the overcrowding of their mother, now sister school, , which is located in Groveland. 2002 Lake County, Florida South Lake High School
[] edit Students
Student enrolment at East Ridge High School is currently 3,084 as of January 14th, East Ridge has a very diverse population.
[] edit Sports
The sports teams at East Ridge train in their practice fields or gym or at the National Training Center about a mile from campus. They play the majority of their home games in "The Dungeon",football field, or in their gym. Their sports include (in seasonal order): women's volleyball, co-ed basketball, co-ed golf, men's football, co-ed soccer, co-ed tennis, women's softball, men's baseball, co-ed swimming/diving, and boys' and girls' lacrosse. In their short history, some of the athletic teams achieved great success. In their second year (2003), the volleyball team reached the Final Four in the 5A division. In 2005, The basketball team reached the Final Four in the 5A division. However, the most noted sports team is their football program. The east ridge golf team was undefeated in the 2007-2008 season. Their record was 14-0.
[] edit Football
The East Ridge Knights football team is the most well known athletic team for the school, especially during its unbeaten winning streak. After the streak had ended it had mild success however it couldn't beat the Edgewater Eagle Curse for the previous three years East Ridge has played Edgewater in the playoffs for three years running, losing by a close margin every time. East Ridge was ranked No.9 for the 2008 football year in all central Florida counties, the Orlando Sentinels teamed up with www.fridaynightfootball.net to give the ratings.
[] edit School Ratings
The Florida Department of Education gave the school a "D" rating in 2003-2004. East Ridge received a "C" rating in the 2004-2005 school year. It also was awarded a "C" rating in 2005-2006, and in the 2006-2007 school year East Ridge High School received a "D" rating. Most recently, the school earned a "B" rating in the 2007-2008 school year.
[] edit Band Program
The is under the direction of Jack Hart. The band program at East Ridge High School provides a well-rounded musical experience for its students with special emphasis placed in the area of Marching, Jazz and Concert Band performance, as well as Color Guard, Winter Guard, and Indoor Percussion. Since the school has been opened, the band program has consistently received a superior rating, with the exception of the 2004-2005 concert band received a rating of excellent. ERHS Band Program
[] edit Concert Season
In the 2006-2007 school year, East Ridge High School's Wind Ensemble went to State Competition receiving scores of good, excellent and good resulting in an overall good rating. This is the first time East Ridge has gone to State Competition for Concert Band. The band was directed by Jack Hart and was composed of 51 students.
[] edit Jazz Band
The East Ridge Jazz Band constantly gets superiors year round. The past 2 years, the jazz band won grand champions at Lakeside Jazz Festival at Port Orange. Also, for the first time in school history, and Mr. Hart's career, the jazz band got straight superiors at state competition at West Port High School in Ocala.
[] edit Marching Band
The East Ridge Band is most known for its Marching band program, which have received straight superiors since their inauguration. Since 2003, they have become the largest marching band in Lake County, and in their district in the Florida Bandmasters Association.
On October 27th, 2007 the Marching Knights went to the Ancient City Presentation of Bands in St. Augustine where they received a final score of 85.5, winning their first ever competition.
Although the band tried their hardest they could not make it to the finals at the state competition in 2007. They placed 9th in class 5a with a score of 82.34.
On October 26th, 2008, the Marching Knights won another competition at St. Augustine. The final score of the band was an 86.6. This was the second year in a row when the band successfully won the Ancient City PResentation of Band competition. Their score was the highest ever received by the band and with this score, the ERHS band also blocked at State Compettion. This was a very big accomplishment for the band, and they are all very proud.
ERHS Band website http://www.erhknightsband.com
[] edit Percussion
The East Ridge Percussion and Drumline (was) directed under Ryan Wright. Since his arrival in 2005, the percussion have received their highest ratings in marching and indoor percussion, in which he started for the school. The indoor percussion have even brought in band members from other instruments to play.
In 2006-2007, the East Ridge Percussion section competed for the first time ever in FFCC Indoor Percussion competitions. Throughout the season, the section competed with various other schools' groups, each varying in size and skill. At every competition, East Ridge's line placed no lower than 3rd, and receiving the highest scores in 2 competitions, only to place 2nd in one of the two due to a timing penalty. At State championships, the section brought together all of their hardwork and practice to place 3rd overall, narrowly missing 2nd and first by less than a point.
In 2008, Mr. Wright left East Ridge to become the head director of rival school, South Lake High School. A new director has be hired to oversee the percussion section. Named Mr.North