     
Applying & Presenting for the Job Interview
This highly interactive half day workshop will take your staff right from preparing their application, through to presenting positively at the interview. It is full of ideas that will help them better understand the needs and requirements of the people on the other side of the selection process, “the selection panel”.
How many times have you seen capable staff in your organisation apply for positions that they are potentially well-equipped for, and yet they either fail to document clearly their experience as it relates to the selection criteria, or they fail to present themselves confidently at the selection interview?
It is a myth that the best person will always win the job! Too often, the best person does not win the job simply because they do not present what they have to offer in a way that is compatible with the rigor of the selection process. Some of your staff may not yet understand that it is not enough to possess the right skills, qualities and experience for a job – they must also be able to convince others that this is indeed the case.
It is a test of a person’s skills & endurance to be able to navigate their way through the selection process. This workshop may provide some of the roadmaps your people need.
Course content for your staff can include ....
Firstly, is it really the right job for you – will it meet your career values?
Understanding the use of selection criteria as the framework for the selection process
Preparing your application – showing how you meet the selection criteria
Researching the job – how to give yourself an edge
Preparing for the interview – anticipating likely questions, collecting and presenting your evidence
Presenting achievements – showing where you’ve made a difference
Managing your nerves, either before or during the interview
Keeping your referees “in the loop”
Learning from the process – seeking feedback from the panel
Planning for your development
Job Interview Coaching Melbourne
Brian Carroll has a background working in recruitment, and for many years as a consultant has helped organisation with their staff interviewing and selection processes. 
He is able to draw upon a wealth of experience when coaching job applicants, offering guidance in how to fine-tune their resume and also how to better prepare themselves for presenting confidently at the job interview.
A 90 minute one-one intensive coaching session with him will give you the opportunity to practice and rehearse for that all-important job interview - possibly gaining you the crucial "edge" that you need..  At his Mooroolbark office (within Melbourne), the fee for a job interview coaching session is $150.
   
  Learning Outcomes for Your Staff (Half day workshop)
 
Prepare their application as a selling document
Prepare for the interview and understand interview etiquette
Present themselves positively and confidently at the interview
 
 TRAINING COURSES
These courses are offered in-house for organisations and can be further tailored to meet your specific requirements.