Happy Holidays from Star Trek: The Continuing Mission...
Thetrailer for the January's episode - ' ' is now available for download .The Darkest of Thoughts exclusively at Continuingmission.com
The is the first in a trilogy of episodes that will answer some of the many questions brought up over this year and bring up a few more...Darkest of Thoughts
One of the crew of the Montana will be forced to make the ultimate sacrifice. Will it be Captain Edwards, Science Officer Natukov or Commander McGuire?
 
 
 
Star Trek: TNG actor, is confirmed to appear in episode 5 of Star Trek: The Continuing Mission - ' ' - Part 2 of the '' Trilogy.TNG Actor Confirmed For Episode 5...
Guy VardamanCommand DecisionSword of Romulus
Mr Vardaman appeared in 66 episodes of TNG's 7 year run primarily as '' and featured as a Klingon Officer in Star Trek VI and later in 'Star Trek: Generations. Production for 'Command Decision' is due to commence in January 2009.Lt. Darien Wallace
Paging Doctor Wilson - An Interview with Gabriel Diani...
This week we get the opportunity to talk with actor Gabriel Diani. Join us as Tim Renshaw interviews the man behind Doctor Kyle Wilson. Download the podcast here .
We continue the interview below talking to Gabriel about his love for Star Trek, comedy and all things Geek!
Hmm. This is a hard one. The facts seem a little boring and I can't think of a clever opening line. Let's come back to it.Who is Gabriel Diani?
More...
Captain's Log - An Interview with Tim Renshaw...
I was privileged to have been able to watch most of the original series episodes the first time they aired on NBC. Because they were aired on Channel 6 in Indianapolis that also meant I could “listen” to the episodes I could not watch on a little portable FM radio I had.How long have you been a Star Trek fan?
More...
31st October 2008 - Learning Curve is Released...
Happy Halloween to one and all. Today sees the release of Star Trek: The Continuing Mission's third full episode - Learning Curve - the first mission for our crew in the 24th century, they are introduced to a new kind of threat, with seemingly no motive or drive other than a thirst for malevolent destruction. As the crew face life by facing death they will face a ruthless enemy unlike any they have encountered before...
Star Trek: The Continuing Mission's third episode - Learning Curve is available to (Running time 42 Minutes - 47.5 MB) download here .
In related news, the Executive Producers Andy Tyrer and Sebastian Prooth will be releasing an upcoming podcast detailing the development and production of episode 3.
28th September 2008 - Learning Curve Trailer Released...
The trailer for the upcoming episode - Learning Curve has now been released and is available to In related news, the production team would like to welcome aboard Tiffany Tallent - the newest member to the show's regular cast. Tiffany will be taking over the role of Lt Numi Nutukov from the upcoming episode Learning Curve. download here .
Learning Curve will be released for download on October 31st 2008.
An additional production podcasts will be released in conjuction with the release of episode 3 detailing the making of the episode.
10th August 2008 - Hailing Frequencies Open...
The Executive Producers of Star Trek The Continuing Mission have released their production update podcast covering upcoming episodes including Learning Curve, Mission to Vulcan, Command Decision and the upcoming Season Finale - Singularity. Join Sebastian Prooth and Andy Tyrer as they talk about the production, cast and characters. Download the Podcast Here .
STREAMING PODCASTS