Rincon Villas, Homes & Beach Houses
The best Villas, Homes and Beach Houses in Rincon.
Click any image for more information.
that includes $100.00 in Fun Vouchers for Dining, Drinks & Activities, plus a complimentary bottle of wine in the wine cooler, as well as coffee, gourmet cheese, specialty crackers and pure bottled water.
Amapola House Ocean View Villa  is a three-level vacation Villa, located on a ocean-view hillside that overlooks a vast nature preserve and the sea, only three minutes from Sandy Beach. The interior is designer-decorated and includes heirloom antiques and historic photos of Old Rincon. Amapola House offers four elegant bedrooms, three spacious bathrooms, a Starlight Veranda and a Sunset Terrace with a jumbo spa tub that overlooks a vast nature preserve and the sea.  Just minutes from pristine and golden Sandy Beach, this elegant Villa can easily accommodate an entire family  or group of up to eight persons. Amapola House  is offering aOcean View Villa$200Welcome Pack
 
 
is the ultimate Caribbean vacation experience. Located right on the best beach in Puerto Rico, this newly-renovated beach house comes very well-equipped.  Step out to our quiet beach, where you can enjoy a perfect day of swimming,  snorkeling, or riding the waves on a banana boat.Arenas y Mar Beach House
 
 
is located on a quiet street by the beach and offers unique tropical accommodations in an intimate setting, with the use of a large, private swimming pool, as well as other many special amenities.Beachside Villas
 
 
 
Casa Bonitais a three-bedroom, beautifully decorated vacation Villa that offers clean and modern spacious living, just minutes from the best beaches in the Caribbean. This newly-remodeled Villa sleeps up to eight persons.
 
 
(named for the NYC firefighters that own it) offers privacy in a beautiful setting in the middle of Puntas. This home can be rented as a six bedroom, a four bedroom or a two bedroom. This two-unit villa has a pool with Tiki bar, ocean views, several terraces, a BBQ grill and loads of amenities.Casa Bomberos
 
 
Casa Lindais a very comfortable, newly renovated cottage in the traditional Caribbean style, surrounded by a canopy of palms and glorious flamboyan trees. Relax and view spectacular sunsets from the outdoor deck overlooking the sea. Play, swim, surf or dine at nearby Sandy Beach.
 
 
Casa Mae  is a newly-constructed 4 bedroom, 3 bathroom vacation home located in in the Puntas section of Rincon. The house is located on a hill facing west so you can enjoy beautiful sunsets while sitting on your own private covered balcony or rooftop terrace. Local beaches are located less than a half mile from the property.
 
 
Casa Margaritais a large and comfortable vacation villa, minutes away from Sea Beach. This spacious and airy villa offers comfort and privacy, steps away from the best Rincon restaurants and beach bars. After a day at the beach, light up the grill and jump in the pool, as another day in Paradise turns into a tropical starlight evening.
 
 
Casa Serena is an informal beach house with 2 apartments, each with 2 bedrooms, 2 baths, a living area with fully equipped kitchen and a 15 foot covered patio facing our quiet Caribbean beach. Great for 2 - 4 people in each. Lovely garden, lovely beach. Come and relax and watch the dolphins and whales pass by. 
 
 
Casa Tamarais located on a quiet stretch of the best swimming beach in Rincon. Our Villa consists of 2 separate apartments, each with 3 bedrooms and each has a covered porch facing the Caribbean on which to relax, dine and watch the fabulous sunsets. Beautifully furnished and well equipped including Wi-Fi. A great house for a quiet get-away or a family get-together.
 
 
., a bonded and licensed real estate brokerage, specializes in Rincon finest oceanfront villas and beach houses. Whether you are looking for a five bedroom oceanfront villa that sleeps ten or a charming oceanfront condo for two, we have something to fit everyone pocketbook.  Give us a call and our friendly, bilingual staff will be glad to make your Caribbean dream vacation come true.Island West Properties, Inc
 
 
is a luxury vacation beachfront villa that offers two individual vacation rental units on Corcega Beach. Enjoy the soothing sounds of the surf and view spectacular Caribbean sunsets from the comfort of the dining area or the terrace. The golden sandy Caribbean beach is great for snorkeling, whale watching in the winter, and other water activities.Pelican Pass
 
 
is located on the most famous beach in Rincon, Sandy Beach.  This cozy house offers a huge back yard, with a shady beach and a cool screened porch from where you can view the ocean. This two bedroom house sleeps up to six persons and provides you with the beauty and old-world charm of Rincon.Lorraine Beach House
 
 
is a two-story beach house located only steps from Sandy Beach in Puntas. This perfect family getaway offers a clean layout and convenient location, near four restaurants, three beach bars and other beaches, all within a five minute walk from your front door.The Red Door
 
 
Make your Rincon vacation even better by staying at , a large, modern vacation home is located a short 220 steps from spectacular Corcega Beach. From the modern, fully equipped kitchen to the comfortable bedrooms and upscale accommodations, Rincon Del Caribe has everything you need for a perfect Rincon vacation.Rincon del Caribe
 
 
Rincon Escapeis a luxurious new beach-side home with a swimming pool, in a quiet, exclusive Rinc beach neighborhood. A large private home with an old world feeling- high ceilings, generous spaces to relax in, a private patio and pool.
 
 
Seashell Villasis the newest beach house on beautiful, quiet Corcega Beach. The villas are 2-bedroom, 2-bathroom fully-equipped apartments. They feature dramatic open-plan living, kitchen and dining areas with stunning views of the sea.
 
 
Tres Amigos Beach Houseis a unique wooden twelve-sided beach house that sits on a quarter acre of land set back 100 yards from the Caribbean. Canopied by Almond, Mango and Mahogany trees, one gets the feeling of being in a tree house...but with all the connivances of a contemporary home with awesome views. The entire side of the house is a large screened lanai open to the sunsets, the surf, the Caribbean Trade Winds (the 'trades'), and in season, the migrating whales.
 
 
offers a cozy and private terraced studio villa, with incredible ocean and mountain panoramic views, minutes away from the best beaches, restaurants and beach bars.Villa Escondida
 
 
Our Rincon vacation rentals portfolio includes the newest and best properties. We find you the right vacation rental. Our mission is to make your stay fun and pleasant.Your selected property is prepared for your arrival as you wish. We assist with special arrangements and requests. You are greeted and given a tour of your chosen property. 
Return to Main Lodging Page,
See Rincon past & present. Visit our Sights page.
 