Even as heat dies down, it doesn't mean your pet can take it
By: Kim Steele Source: Post-Tribune
 
The "dog days of summer" are winding down, but that doesn't mean pet owners should lower their guard against the threat of heat stroke.
 
Whether it's being locked in a hot car, housed in a sunny area of the back yard or exercised during the heat of the day, pets are still at risk of becoming ill -- or even dying -- when their body temperature gets too high.
 
Local veterinarians and national animal protection groups are cautioning pet owners to remain vigilant.
 
Dr. Norm Brooker, a veterinarian at Hobart Animal Hospital, said he sees the most cases of heat stroke when the 90-degree days pass and the temperature slides into the 80s.
 
Brooker said most people realize scorching weather is too hot for pets, but forget to take the same precautions when it's in the 80s, which can be just as dangerous.
 
"I'd say use common sense when letting your dog outside," Brooker said. "If the weather feels uncomfortable to you, then it probably is uncomfortable for your pet. My dogs aren't out at all if it's hot, other than to go to the bathroom. And if you put a dog outside when it's hot, you need shade and plenty of water for it."
 
Brooker said the majority of calls about heat stroke come from clients who leave their animals outside too long in hot weather. Brooker said the hospital received a call that morning from a client whose large, black dog had been outside all day and couldn't stand up. Brooker said he hasn't seen the dog yet, but suspects heat stroke.
 
Dr. Carol Dartz, a veterinarian at Arbor View Animal Hospital in Valparaiso, said that as long as the weather is hot, the danger of heat stroke remains.
 
Dartz is currently treating a young rabbit housed outside that got overheated and developed intestinal problems because of the stress to its body. She said that in the past two years, she has seen three cases of heat stroke -- one was a dog left in a hot car, another was an indoor dog that had been let outside for a half-hour on a scorching day, and the third involved the rabbit.
 
Dartz said dogs, rabbits and ferrets are very susceptible to heat stroke, but it isn't as common in cats. Both veterinarians said heat stroke begins with the animal becoming disoriented and agitated, along with salivating, heavy panting and bright red gums. As it progresses, the animal may experience bloody diarrhea or vomit, depression, stupor, collapse and finally, go into a coma. Immediate treatment is necessary for all stages of heat stroke.
 
If a pet shows any symptoms of heat stroke, professionals advise removing it from direct heat and spraying or submersing it. Rubbing alcohol can be placed on the paws to help dissipate the heat, and wet towels can be placed on its head, neck, chest, feet and abdomen. An emergency visit to the vet is called for as the symptoms worsen.
 
Besides leaving pets outside too long in the heat without shade or water, other reasons for heat stroke include exercising animals when it's too hot and keeping them in a car when the temperatures are climbing. When it's 85 degrees outside, the temperature within a car, even with the windows slightly open, can soar to 102 degrees in 10 minutes.
 
"People just don't realize how quick the temperature rises in a car, especially when the sun is beating down on it," Dartz said. "They know better than to close themselves in a hot car, and yet they do it to their pets. Many times, the owners think they'll just be gone for a minute, but their errand takes longer than they thought."
 
To combat this, the American Protection Institute in Sacramento, Calif., has launched a national initiative, called "My Dog Is Cool," to warn pet owners to leave their animals home when the weather is hot. The initiative is backed by the Nissan car company, and includes prominent warnings in their new car manuals.
 
The initiative's Web site, , allows viewers to enter their ZIP code to find out the current temperature and whether there is a heat alert, offers fliers and posters detailing the problem, includes a photo page and provides information on lobbying automobile manufacturers to include information in their manuals. www.mydogiscool.com
 
Elaine Wood, program manager for animal protection services for the American Humane Association in Denver, Colo., said pet owners can begin to relax about heat stroke when temperatures reach about 75 degrees. Wood said risk factors decrease dramatically as the weather cools, because animals can regulate themselves better.
 
"We recommend that pet owners still maintain caution right now and don't lock their animals in their cars," Wood said. "There's a 40-degree increase inside a closed car sitting in direct sunlight over the outside temperature. Even when the outside temperature drops into the 70s, it's still hot in the car. Our recommendation is don't do it."
 
As for keeping pets outdoors, Wood said that risk factors rise to dangerous levels once the temperature reaches 80 degrees, especially if the humidity is high. Wood said pet owners should take extra precaution with animals that are younger than 6 months, have heavy coats, are obese or old, and have pug noses.
 
And when it comes to exercising pets in the heat, Wood said caution is still needed, because most cases of heat stroke from exercise occur in early spring or late summer.
 
Wood said pet owners forget their animals' bodies are trying to adjust to the temperature changes.
 
"Heat stroke can occur in just 10 minutes and leave lasting damage or even cause death," Wood said. "Pay attention to what your pet is doing so it can stay healthy."
 
 
Hot weather pet care tip
Never leave pets alone in a parked car -- even for a minute. Parking in shade offers little protection, as the sun shifts during the day.
 
Make sure pets always have fresh, clean water available.
 
Ensure pets have access to shade and can move out of direct sun. When temperatures soar, leaving animals unattended in a yard without shade or confined in a way that they can't move into the shade is unsafe.
 
Remember not to leave pets outside for long periods of time without checking them. An area with plenty of shade at 10 a.m. may be scorching by afternoon.
 
Don't force your companion animal to exercise after a meal in hot, humid weather. Do it in the cool of the early morning or evening.
 
A dog's paws can be burned by hot pavement. Be careful not to make them stand on hot pavement for long periods of time, and keep walks to a minimum on hot asphalt.
 
Be sensitive to old and overweight animals in hot weather. Snub-nosed dogs (like Pekingese, bull dogs, Boston terriers, Lhasa apsos and Shih tzus) and those with heart or lung diseases should be kept indoors and in air conditioning if possible.
 
If you and your dog go to the beach, be sure you can find shade and plenty of fresh water. Rinse her off after she has been in salt water
 
Contact Kim Steele at 648-3108 or ksteele@post-trib.com
 
COURTESY OF THE AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR THE PREVENTION OF CRUELTY TO ANIMALS, AMERICAN HUMANE ASSOCIATION AND AMERICAN PROTECTION INSTITUTE
 