Submitted by Reviewer (not verified) on 5 October, 2005 - 20:17.
Logitech MX3100 Cordless Desktop Laser
Model
Rating 4.0/5 from 37 reviews
better late...
Rating: 2/5 2008-11-03
This product arrived a little late, and then the seller failed to include the manual and the software CD. I wss able to download both with quite a bit of effort. I'd say this seller failed to deliver as promised.
Nice and reliable. Recommended
Rating: 5/5 2006-12-26
Had this for about a year. Reliable. Nicely laid out keyboard. Nice feel and well spaced for my big hands. 95% of keyboards are too small for me. Plenty of customizable options. Everything you need is on the keyboard. Mouse works well on all surfaces. Nice hand feel and good options. Only wish it would control sound and have a mute button. Mouse charger is nice. Mouse will work for weeks without a recharge, even under heavy usage. Keyboard batteries last for months. Recommended. Another quality Logitech product.
Works flawlessley
Rating: 5/5 (5 out of 5 think this is helpful) 2006-03-18
This is my second try with Logitech. I first ordered the Bluetooth version which was HORRIBLE. I kept losing connection, the mouse would pause during use, there was delay in typing and mouse movement. The MX3100 is a night and day difference, it is fantastic. I would buy it again any day. The mouse battery is incredible and I am on my original keyboard batteries after 1 1/2 months of steady use.
Extremely good desktop set
Rating: 5/5 (3 out of 3 think this is helpful) 2006-03-09
I bought this set mostly for the MX1000 mouse, since I liked the fit and feel of it. I decided to get the desktop set since I had wanted a wireless keyboard too. The mouse is smooth, charges quickly, keeps it's charge for a long time (I get about 2 weeks of heavy use), and is a good fit for my hand. Pushing down on the middle button isn't as smooth as some mice, but isn't bad. The keyboard is very light, extremely quiet, has good, customizable controls, good wirelss range, and good battery life (I bought the set about 4 weeks ago and I am still using the batteries that came with the keyboard). The tilt stands could make the keyboard a little taller, but it is still usable. I would highly recommend this desktop set to everyone.
Great Product
Rating: 5/5 2006-03-08
I'm not a computer geek, but I really like this product. I have a large wood computer cabinet with a slide out desk top and below that a slide out keyboard tray. My wires were constantly getting caught every time I opened and closed up my desk. This has made everything so much easier. One of the best investments I made.
Editorials:
The Logitech MX 3100 Cordless Desktop is a high-performance keyboard and mouse combination. Exceed your expectations with a cordless desktop that features built-in Internet functionality and the MX 1000 Laser Cordless Mouse - the world's first laser mouse. Requires 2 AA batteries (not incl.) Includes Logitech MediaLife software Operating System - Windows 98SE/2000/ME/XP
Product Description
Keyboard's zero-degree tilt design delivers ergonomic comfort
Deeply-sculpted laser mouse for comfortable usage
Rechargeable lithium ion mouse battery
1-touch buttons for internet radio, instant messaging, scroll, tilt, and zoom
5-year warranty