: | | | | Categories Tornadoes 1925 Missouri history Illinois history Indiana history
Tri-State Tornado
The of , , crossed from southeastern , through , and into southwestern , and was the deadliest tornado in . With 695 confirmed deaths, the storm killed more than twice as many as the second deadliest, the 1840 . The 219 mile track left by the tornado was the longest ever recorded in the .Tri-State Tornado March 18 1925 Missouri Illinois Indiana U.S. history Great Natchez Tornado United States
The funnel cloud was first sighted around 1:00 p.m., March 18, northwest of . The tornado sped to the northeast, killing two and causing $500,000 of damage to and the mining town of Leadanna. In Bollinger County, 32 children were injured when two schools were damaged. Eleven died altogether in Missouri. Ellington, Missouri Annapolis
The tornado crossed the and into southern Illinois, hitting the town of , at 2:30 p.m., killing 34. Continuing to the northeast at an average speed of 60 miles per hour, the tornado cut a swath almost a mile wide through , , , and West Frankfort. Within 40 minutes, 541 lives were lost and 1,423 were seriously injured. The village of Parrish was completely destroyed, killing 22. The tornado proceeded through Hamilton and White Counties, claiming 65 more residents. Mississippi River Gorham, Illinois Murphysboro De Soto Hurst-Bush
Crossing the into Indiana, the tornado struck and travelled ten more miles to the northeast before finally dissipating. In Indiana, 71 perished. In all, 695 died, mostly in Illinois. Total damage was estimated at $16.5 million, with the majority in and around Murphysboro. Wabash River Princeton
In addition to the dead and injured, thousands were left without shelter or food. and theft, particularly from the dead, were reported. Looting
Was the Tri-State more than one tornado?
Long-lived tornados like the Tri-State are often created by a cyclical , composed of a series of different supercells. Therefore some meteorologists suggest that the Tri-State tornado was actually several associated tornados, like the 1947 . The huge, nearly mile-wide funnel reported by eyewitnesses may have resulted from the combination of several smaller twisters. supercell thunderstorm Glazier-Higgins-Woodward Tornadoes