ADA Amendments Act of 2008
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to: , navigation search
This article You can help by converting this section to prose, if . is available.is in a list format that may be better presented using . prose appropriate Editing help
(January 2009)
The (ADAAA), signed into law on September 25, 2008:Americans with Disabilities Act Amendments Act of 2008
The of this article is . neutrality disputed
Please see the discussion on the . talk page (December 2008)
Please do not remove this message until the dispute is resolved.
Overturns the erroneous Supreme Court decisions that have eroded the protections for people with disabilities under the (ADA), restoring original Congressional intent. Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990
Rejects strict interpretation of the definition of disability, and makes it absolutely clear that the ADA is intended to provide broad coverage to protect anyone who faces discrimination on the basis of disability.
Strikes a balance between employer and employee interests.
Prohibits the consideration of mitigating measures such as medication, prosthetics, and assistive technology, in determining whether an individual has a disability.
Covers people who experience discrimination based on a perception of impairment regardless of whether the individual experiences disability.
Provides that reasonable accommodations are only required for individuals who can demonstrate they have an impairment that substantially limits a major life activity, or a record of such impairment. Accommodations need not be provided to an individual who is only regarded as having an impairment.
Is supported by a broad coalition of civil rights groups, disability advocates, and employer trade organizations. [1]
The law, to take effect 01 January 2009, now specifies a list of , rather than leaving that phrase open to interpretation as the ADA of 1990 did. The non-exhaustive list of major life activities in 4(4)(a) includes caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, seeing, hearing, eating, sleeping, walking, standing, lifting, bending, speaking, breathing, learning, reading, concentrating, thinking, communicating and working. In addition, a list of is included.major life activities [2] major bodily functions