2,768 (as of 2004) [1]
Non Sworn Employees
1,571 (as of 2004) [1]
Superintendent responsible
Lt. Col. Thomas Gilbert, Chief of Staff
Facilities
Troops
5
Troop A: Southern New Jersey (including the ) Troop B: Northern New Jersey Troop C: Central New Jersey Troop D: Troop E: Atlantic City Expressway
The () is the force for the state of . It is a general-powers police agency with state wide jurisdiction, designated by Troop Sectors.New Jersey State PoliceNJSP state police New Jersey [3]
Contents
[] edit History
As with other state police organizations, the primary reason for the creation of the New Jersey State Police was for the protection of rural areas that had never had law enforcement, beyond a local sheriff, who was often not able to provide suitable services. Legislation for its creation was first introduced in 1914, but it would not be until , , with the passing of the State Police Bill, that a statewide police force was created. Senator Clarence I. Case was the driving force behind the 1921 legislation, however, the person with the most impact on the organization was its first Superintendent Schwarzkopf was a graduate of and this training and his time in the military heavily influenced how he organized and trained his first group of troopers. The first State Police class reported for training on , and consisted of 116 men out of an applicant group of 1,600. Training took place in on the same grounds as the current State Police Academy. . Out of the 116 men who started training only 81 officers and troopers completed the three-month training program. According to the , "On , , the new troopers were administered the oath of office and on , , in a blinding snowstorm, started out on horseback and motorcycle to their posts throughout the state." police March 29 1921 Norman Schwarzkopf, Sr. West Point September 1 1921 Sea Girt, New Jersey [4] New Jersey State Police Website December 1 1921 December 5 1921
[] edit Core Functions
The New Jersey State Police is responsible for general police services, general highway and traffic enforcement, statewide investigation and intelligence services, emergency management, support for state and local law enforcement efforts, maintenance of criminal records and identification systems and regulation of certain commerce such as firearms ownership. [3]
Many municipalities in southern and north-western New Jersey lack local police departments, therefore the state police have the primary responsibility for providing police services to these towns for a yearly assessed nominal fee paid to the state government. [3]
The State Police are also charged with the responsibility of protecting the Governor of New Jersey. [3]
[] edit Motto and General Orders
[] edit Motto and Badge
"Honor, Duty, Fidelity", the motto of the New Jersey State Police was adapted from the motto "Duty, Honor, Country". The triangular State Police logo and hat badge represents this motto. The badge has stars in each of its three corners and was created by New York jeweler Julius George Schwarzkopf, the father of founder . The NJSP logo includes the year 1921, date of founding, in place of a badge number. West Point Herbert Norman Schwarzkopf [5]
[] edit General Order #1
The General Orders are the guiding principles of the State Police and provide historical bases for its rules and regulations. A full list of the orders can be found here General Order #1.
[] edit Academy
Training for recruits takes place at the located in . The academy is both physically and mentally demanding on the recruit. The recruits live at the academy during the week and are responsible for the upkeep of the barracks and academy grounds, as well as their equipment and uniforms. The curriculum consists of ten units of study that increase in difficulty and complexity over the 25 weeks of training. Drop out rate for new recruits in the Academy is above or close to 30% per class. Some areas of study include: State Police Academy Sea Girt, New Jersey [6]
Physical Training: Three two-hour sessions per week. Running is a large component of the physical conditioning and reaches a maximum of five miles at an 8-minute pace. Muscular conditioning is also stressed and recruits must pass all physical tests. [6]
Self-Defense: Consists of approximately 20 hours of active counter measures, 28 hours of defensive tactics, and 18 hours of PR-24 instruction. [6]
Firearms: Recruits must show proper usage and care of all firearms issued by the state police, including the and . Recruits go through 60 hours of firearms training. SIG P228 handgun Benelli M1 shotgun [6]
Water Safety: Consists of 40 hours of water safety and life saving instruction.
Driving: Driving consists of approximately 21 hours of instruction and each recruit is required to show proficiency in the operation of marked troop transportation. [6]