 
Treadmill Versus Elliptical Trainer
The big match-up in fitness equipment is the venerable champ the treadmill versus the upstart, the elliptical trainer. The treadmill has been the most popular fitness equipment for a number of years, and still dominates in overall sales volume.
Elliptical trainer sales are growing at a respectable pace. In fact, the rate of increase is surpassing treadmills. There seems to be a particular appeal to the baby boomers as their joints and muscles are starting to respond from years of abuse. I know, I am one of them.
So which one is better? It depends on the user and their fitness goals.
Treadmill Versus Elliptical Trainer - And the Winner Is!
There is no clear cut winner. People have different preferences when it comes to exercising. And we all have different goals, whether it is to tone up, lose weight, build cardio, slow down the aging process, etc.
The Benefits of Treadmills
One of the major benefits of a treadmill is ease of use. You really don't need any coordination. If you can walk, jog or run you can benefit from a treadmill. And if you are a walker or jogger, a treadmill offer the benefit of reducing the impact on your joints. Most treadmills have decks that absorb a degree of impact in comparison to running on concrete or asphalt, but there is still impact.
As a runner the treadmill personally has more appeal versus an elliptical trainer. One of the most important benefits is I can continue my running regardless of the weather outdoors. In addition, I can monitor my level of exertion and even control it with a heart a rate control option. (Also check out for information on fitness accessories) Fitness Proposals
The Benefits of Elliptical Trainer
There are basically two major benefits of an elliptical - the low impact and the upper and lower body workout. Both these benefits need to be qualified since ellipticals are often marketed as having no impact and giving a total body workout.
There is still some degree of impact, but in comparison to walking or jogging it is insignificant. Because your legs, knees and joints are moving in an elliptical motion the impact is greatly reduced. To give you an idea of the difference, when you run you are impacting as much as 2.5 times your weight when you hit the surface. With an elliptical trainer there is no reverse, jolting motion.
As far as a total body workout, yes an elliptical will work the upper body, but not in the way weight training will. It is working out limited upper body muscles. In order to get a total body workout you still need to go through the stations of the weight machines.
The only drawback to an elliptical trainer for some people is the elliptical motion and the combination upper and lower body exercises. Some find it awkward and prefer the simplicity of a treadmill. But for those who suffer from injuries and strained joints an elliptical trainer can be the solution.
So the treadmill versus elliptical trainer debate goes on, without a clear winner. The winner is determined by the individual's needs and goals.