Smooth CE 2.1 Elliptical Trainer Review
Best Buy - Mid-Range
The Smooth CE 2.1 elliptical trainer is their entry level model. When selling in the $1,300 price range it is a solid value. It is one of the most durable and solid machines at this price range.
The frame, brake system and the flywheel are exactly the same as the higher priced Smooth CE 3.2. Both have a heavy-duty flywheel combined with the Electromagnetic Braking System. These features contribute to a very, which is the most important function of an elliptical trainer.smooth and fluid elliptical motionHow do you tell when you have a superior engineered machine? It is obvious when you stop your exercise and the flywheel gradually slows down. You'll find other models in this price range tend to have an erractic motion, that jerks and grabs. A smoother elliptical motion gives you a better exercise experience.
for the latest price.As of 1/5/09, the Smooth CE 2.1 was selling for $1,299 with shipping. At that price the is a better value. Go toNote: Smooth 3.2 SmoothFitness.com
The CE 2.1 includes pivotal foot pedals. One of the outstanding benefits of an elliptical trainer is the reduced impact on your joints. With pivotal foot pedals you further reduce the strain by allowing your feet to pivot with the elliptical motion. The entire base of your foot tends to always be aligned with the pedal.
The machine weighs in at a heavy 175 lbs, giving it a very solid and stable feel. It also has a 76" length, which further contributes to the stability. You can really notice the difference from a lighter weight model.
The Smooth CE 2.1 elliptical comes with but does not have wireless HRC. The CE 2.1 does have a heart rate control program, that is monitored through the hand sensors. Locating the sensors on the upper arm grips is an innovative idea found on only one other brand.heart rate monitoring sensors on the handgrips,You get the benefits of heart rate control without having the wireless strap.
Most elliptical trainers have the sensors in stationary hand grips in front of the console. In order to monitor your heart rate you have to discontinue the upper body workout. How can you get a true heart rate read-out without the upper body exercise.
I personally never use heart rate control. I prefer to control my workout manually. That doesn't mean there are not benefits from HRC.
If you are uncertain about the benefits of heart rate control, check out the article on . Wireless heart rate control is available on the CE 3.2 Heart Rate Control
The CE 2.1 has the less expense LCD display, in comparison to the dot matrix LED display on the 3.2. The CE 2.1 does has 9 challenging programs, including an endurance, heart rate control and interval program. Interval training is the hot new training exercise. According to Smooth:
You can improve cardiovascular functions with higher intensity routines followed by cool down periods. The eight intervals within the program offer an optimum balance between cardio, fat burning and muscle toning.
Fitness Source Smooth CE 2.1 Review
The Smooth CE 2.1 elliptical trainer is an excellent value if it is on sale for $1,299 (The price should include shipping.). It is one of the best buys at that price range, especially when you factor in the 3-year parts and lifetime brake system warranty.
In addition to a quality elliptical machine, Smooth Fitness has an excellent reputation for customer service. The company sells direct and is responsible for all repairs. You'll be hard press to find a better machine in this price range.
For more information go to www.SmoothFitness.com
Customer Reviews:
My experience with CE 2.1. Only had it a week, 8/22/08, but appears to be well-made and quiet. However I would upgrade to the next level CE 3.2 for the controls and matrix screens. The LCD is mediocre at best and the computer is difficult to read for settings. The two units are mechanically identical, so performance is not an issue. 4 stars for the product, not for Smooth Fitness as a company.  Make sure you track all transactions with Smooth Fitness. Smooth Fitness attempted to send a used unit, but I caught the price difference and called/emailed them on it. Not a big deal, but... Another order for a 6.25 treadmill was delivered and turned out to be a used machine that was partially packaged. The treadmill was upside down in the box with missing and broken Styrofoam pieces. Obviously, it was a customer return that was never tested or repackaged. The huge box was in good shape with no dents, no cuts, no holes. The delivery issues are the result of Smooth Fitness sending a used rather than a new unit for which I paid. This is the second time that Smooth Fitness has done a "bait and switch". Good equipment, but not a company with which I choose to do business. Patrick
Bought this from Costco based on significant positive reviews found online. Have been quite disappointed with it from day one. On the good side it does feel very sturdy and it *was* very quiet at first. However the feel of the unit is not what I expected. The arm polls do not have a good range of motion and require too much force (as compared to other models). Also the unit is supposed to have an 18" stride but it feels more like 16". My biggest issue is with quality and the company itself. My unit began to make loud grinding noises within three weeks. Smooth Fitness support has been friendly but they took over a month to get the part to me. They also subcontract out the repair. I am now dealing with issues trying to get a tech to call me back, or decide on an appointment day/time. I am not pleased. I used the machine for three weeks and now it has been down for over a month. This isn't what I paid for. I regret buying it and wished I had gotten the NordicTrack with the adjustable ramp instead. () NordicTrack 990
Last I looked Costco was selling the Smooth CE 2.1 at a lower price than at www.SmoothFitness.com.Note:
*This Smooth CE 2.1 Elliptical Trainer Review is based on not only testing the equipment, but also comments, testimonials, reviews and ratings of customers and third parties. We attempt to be as accurate as possible. Warranties, features and prices can change without notice.
 
 © 2009 InterMax Inc. All Rights Reserved
 