Information by Condition or Disease
A Non-Profit 501(c)(3) Organization All donations are tax deductible Copyright © 1997 - 2009
Any health care links located here are to replace a veterinarian visit; please take your cat to a vet immediately at any sign of odd behavior or any symptoms of illness or injury. Call your vet and describe your cat's symptoms with any of your concerns about the cat's well-being. Your veterinarian may discover changes in your cat's health that you have overlooked. It is always better to err on the side of caution.NOT
Pregnancy and Delivery
Disclaimer: sniksnak.com and all its subdomains, including Pawprints and Purrs, Inc. is an animal advocacy site. We do advocate breeding in any form or fashion. As rescue workers for both dogs and cats, feral cat caretakers, and former shelter workers, we strongly promote , which includes of all pets.NOT pet owner responsibility spaying and neutering The information provided on this page is for educational purposes for domesticated and feral cat rescuing, fostering, adopting and caretaking.strictly
The average onset of puberty and sexual behavior in cats begins at about 5 to 9 months of age. Most, but not all cats who are sexually mature, indicate this through some changes in their behavior. For a young male, this is through , roaming, and toward other males who impinge on his domain. These types of behavior begin to appear even before some of the physical characteristics related to sexual maturity develop. Tomcats often develop jowls (prominent cheeks) and a broad head. Unaltered males are more muscular and may develop a greasy patch of fur at the base of their tail in a condition called . Female cats are called . They usually reach sexual maturity about the same age as males. Females can become pregnant at the time of their first breeding, a fact that has been the consternation of many cat owners caught by surprise. Unlike dogs, there are no external physical signs of (heat) in female cats; no bloody vaginal discharge and no swelling of the vulva. Female cats indicate that they are ready to be bred entirely through behavior designed to attract and encourage males. A female cat beginning her estrous (heat cycle) becomes restless and vocal. She rubs her head affectionately against her owner or any upright object, marking these with the oily secretions on the relatively hairless areas below her ears on her forehead. A sexually receptive queen will roll on the floor or tread with her hind feet if scratched at the base of her tail. When treading, she alternately lifts her left and right rear feet in quick succession while raising her hindquarters in the air and crouching on her front legs. She might yowl a long, mournful, guttural cry and wander around the house or sit at the door. Many people are unfamiliar with these normal estrous behaviors and think their cat is ill or in pain. At first the period of sexual receptivity is very short. If there is no successful mating, the hormones that induce this behavior will wane and for several days she will no longer seek out a male or act interested in mating. Eventually, the period of receptivity will last longer and she will go out of heat for only one or two days, only to quickly return to her estrous behaviors of crying, rolling, and treading. Unlike dogs who exhibit signs of estrus only one, two, or perhaps three times a year, cats will continue this pattern during most of the year. The pattern of estrous cycles is influenced by the length of natural sunlight exposure, the breed of the cat, and individual variation. Not all female cats will exhibit the prominent behavior associated with sexual receptivity, very young females in particular. Owners of these cats are likely to let the cat out the door as usual one morning and receive a surprise two months later. Hence, all female cats should be kept indoors and away from their male siblings until they have been spayed. Too many people are under the impression can only be done after a pet reaches the age of 5-7 months. Early age altering of pets has been practiced for over 25 years in North America. Early age altering means . By tradition (due to years by-gone anesthetic techniques that weren't available at the time) waiting until a pet was older increased survival rate during surgery. However, with modern technology, there is to prolong spaying and neutering as a medical reason. Susan Little, DVM of the Health Committee states: For additional information on early altering, check this published by . Sexual intercourse itself is brief. The female will crouch and present her hindquarters to the male, who mounts her and grasps the loose skin on her neck (scruff) with his teeth. Intromission and ejaculation occur, lasting only a few seconds. When the tom withdraws his penis, which has backward barbs or spines and tears the tender tissue of the vagina, the female will emit a scream and turn on the male, hissing and spitting, and striking out with her front paws with claws extended. She will then characteristically roll and lick her vulva for several minutes. This act will be repeated several more times over a few hours. After successfully mating, the female's ovaries will release eggs which will be fertilized by the male's sperm as they are encountered in her reproductive tract. Once pregnant, the cycle of estrous behavior stops. The normal gestation time for cats is 64 to 69 days, roughly two months. Around the time for delivery (), the female will seek out a secluded nest. It may be in a closet, under the shrubs, in the hayloft, or in the center of your bed. There will usually be little fuss or bother, but a few pregnant queens will stay close to the owner. Cats can delay the onset of labor or halt the delivery process if the nest is disturbed. Just prior to delivery, her body temperature will drop to under 100ºF (37.8ºC). Kittens are usually delivered after a few strong contractions that look like waves across her abdomen, with the entire litter being born in just a few hours. Some cats deliver part of the litter and then go out of labor for up to 24 hours before delivering the remaining kittens. This could be due to a lack of privacy during delivery, or because the kittens were conceived at different matings (which means the kittens in a single litter could be fathered by different toms). Pauses in the delivery process are perfectly fine, but if your queen is in active labor and straining for more than 45 minutes without producing a kitten, you should call your veterinarian. A placenta is usually passed immediately after each kitten is born. The female will lick each newborn to clean off the translucent membranes covering their bodies. She will chew the umbilical cord to separate the placenta and unless you intervene, she will more than likely eat it. Most mother cats stay with the kitten except for very short periods of time to eat and eliminate. Mothers will move the litter to a more secluded nest if the kittens are handled too often. Mother cats rarely require assistance in the delivery of their kittens. Your most significant contribution to the birth will be to provide appropriate prenatal care to the mother. This should include and attention to her . Pregnant cats should be fed a high-quality diet formulated specifically for kittens beginning in the last third of the pregnancy when the fetuses are in their rapid growth stage. Continue to feed the mother this food until the kittens are weaned. The nutritional requirements for energy and protein for pregnant and nursing cats are about double those of a healthy nonpregnant cat. A diet formulated to support nonpregnant adult cats may be inadequate in energy, protein, and minerals for the pregnant or nursing queen. Although problems related to queening (the delivery of kittens) are rare, there are a few precautions you should take. If you know the breeding dates for the mother, calculate the approximate delivery date on your calendar. Watch for any subtle signs of nesting behavior as this date approaches. You can check her body temperature, but this intrusion may delay delivery. Once labor has started, it is a good idea to call your veterinarian's office to let the staff know that the kittens are arriving, just in case of a problem. Have some soft hand towels ready to help the mother remove the fetal membranes and dry off the kittens if problems do arise. If you need to tie off a kitten's umbilical cord, use thread or dental floss and a pair of scissors. The mother will clean the kitten and detach the umbilical cord from the placenta in plenty of time, unless two kittens are born in quick succession. In this case, you can wipe the kittens' noses and mouths free from fluid and membranes, watch for breathing, and let the mother continue with her thing. Beware of the few signs that could indicate a potential problem with the births. If you see any of the signs in the table below, you should immediately consult your veterinarian.Reproduction and the Healthy Cat
queensestrus
Early Age Spaying and Neutering
spaying/neutering spaying and neutering pets between the ages of 6 and 14 weeksno need Cat Fanciers' Association
Over the years, the safety of early altering has been questioned, mainly by veterinarians who may be unfamiliar with the surgical and anesthetic techniques required for pediatric patients. As well, concerns that early altering could increase the incidence of feline lower urinary tract disease, could affect skeletal development, and affect behavior have been voiced. A study recently published by researchers at the University of Florida found no significant differences in the physical and behavioral characteristics of cats altered at 7 weeks of age compared to those altered at 7 months of age.These concerns have largely been laid to rest by many studies, and early altering is becoming more widespread and available. article Alley Cat Allies
Mating
Pregnancy and Delivery
queening
NOTE: Female cats can and do go into heat and can become pregnant as little as 48 hours after delivering a litter.
Under no circumstances should you intervene in the delivery unless a problem arises.
Problems with Delivery: Dystocia
Signs of Potential Problems Related to Birth
Problem
Possible Causes
Bloody vaginal discharge
Before 8 weeks gestation: possible abortion or resorption of the litter. After 8 weeks gestation: premature delivery.
Smelly vaginal discharge