Patch of the Michigan State Police.
Michigan State Police Door Seal
Badge of the Michigan State Police.
Agency Overview
1,862 (as of 2004) [3]
Civilians
859 (as of 2004) [4]
Agency executive
Colonel Peter C. Munoz, Director
Districts
http://www.michigan.gov/msp/
The (MSP) is the agency for the . The department was founded in 1917 as a war-time constabulary and eventually evolved into the modern agency that it is today. The department's enlisted members are called . The department had 1,835 sworn members as of June 2005.Michigan State Police state police State of Michigan Troopers
Contents
[] edit History
The Michigan Department of State Police began as a temporary, wartime emergency force for the purpose of domestic security during . On , , Governor created the Michigan State Troops Permanent Force, (also known as the Michigan State Constabulary). With Colonel Roy C. Vandercook as the first commanding officer, this new force consisted of five Troops of mounted, dismounted and motorized units, totaling 300 men. On , , Public Act 26 reorganized the Constabulary as the permanent, peace-time Michigan State Police. World War I April 19 1917 Albert Sleeper March 26 1919
Throughout the history of the department, its members have participated in many important events. Some of the earliest duties of the department involved its troopers being dispatched on horseback to the iron-rich regions of the state's to guarantee the mining and distribution of the vital ore. In the mid 1970's Governor gave the Michigan State Police a permanent presence on Detroit area freeways which culminated in the opening of the Detroit Freeway post in Downtown Detroit. This action was taken after a rash of crimes on the Detroit area freeway system and local law enforcement had limited resources in doing expressway patrols on a regular basis. MSP troopers were deployed in in the summer of 2003 to quell civil unrest that was occurring within that city. Troopers were also deployed to Louisiana in September 2005 following to assist local authorities with search and rescue, law enforcement, and humanitarian efforts in the devastated city of . In January and February 2006, the Michigan State Police deployed several hundred Troopers to during and worked with local and federal agencies to ensure a safe environment for the game and its related festivities. The summer of 2007 saw a major mobilzation of departmental resources for the National Governor's Conference in Traverse City. The state police were also requested to assist local police agencies with patrol support in the cities of Flint and Saginaw; a similar request was made in February 2008 by the city of Pontiac after budget difficulties forced the cash-strapped city to layoff many police officers. Upper Peninsula Michigan William G. Milliken Benton Harbor Hurricane Katrina New Orleans, Louisiana Detroit Super Bowl XL
[] edit Duties
Troopers with the Michigan State Police are entrusted with the authority to conduct investigations concerning violations of criminal and traffic throughout the state, regardless of city, township, or county boundaries. statutes
[] edit Divisions
The MSP consists of four bureaus encompassing many different divisions:
The consists of two major regions. Region Two encompasses the metropolitan Detroit Area, and Region One consists of the rest of the state in its entirety. Combined, both regions contain seven districts encompassing sixty-four posts, seven detachments, and eight resident trooper concepts. Also included in the bureau are the Intelligence Section, Field Operations, and the Traffic Safety Division. The Traffic Safety Division is responsible for the enforcement of laws and regulations pertaining to commercial motor vehicles. The Department also maintains a State Police Post in the Capitol building. These Officers provide Law Enforcement services to the members of the Legislature, Governors residence and thousands of visitors each year. Other facets of the Field Services Bureau include the aviation division, the department's various canine teams, and the (ES Team). Of all the department's Bureaus, it is the Field Services Bureau that members of the public most often encounter through their interactions with the agency's Troopers, Motor Carrier Officers, or other support staff.Field Services Bureau Emergency Support Team
The consists of several divisions, including the training division, that provide administrative support to the department.Administrative Bureau
The consists of several divisions that provide technical and operational support to the department. Key among its divisions is the Division, which is composed of seven laboratories and ten additional locations which provide polygraph testing services. State-of-the-art forensic laboratory services, including crime scene and 'post-blast' investigations, drug analysis, document examination, polygraph testing, latent print examination, latent print examination, AFIS, DNA analysis, toxicology analysis, blood/alcohol analysis, firearms and toolmark examination, arson evidence analysis, and serology and trace evidence analysis are provided to all Michigan law enforcement agencies at no cost.State Services Bureau Forensic Science
The exists to provide administrative support to the Director by providing information for executive-level decision making, supporting agency-wide strategic planning, representing the Director outside the agency, developing and disseminating department policy, formulating agency positions on public policy issues, media relations, and ensuring high standards of organizational effectiveness and individual professionalism. The executive division also contains the Governor's Security Detail.Executive Division
MSP Patrol Car
Close up an MSP sharkfin
The familiar blue MSP Patrol Car is referred to as "the blue goose" by members of the department. As of 2006, the department's fleet consists of primarily . However, the MSP has begun adding patrol vehicles to its fleet (10 for the 2006 fiscal year). The department also utilizes the for canine and motor carrier use. Several other varieties of vehicles, including and , are used by the department's specialized divisions. Fully-marked patrol vehicles feature a single red overhead light that rotates when activated. MSP vehicles also feature a clear plastic device, referred to as a "shark fin," on the hood that lights up when activated. Patrol units also use red and blue facing to the rear of the vehicle, as well as headlight and tail light flashers. Ford Police Interceptors Dodge Charger Chevrolet Tahoe Chevrolet Suburbans Impalas LEDs
MSP Dodge Charger.
The MSP also utilizes "slick top" patrol units for traffic enforcement. There are two types of traffic cars: the traditional blue patrol car sans the traditional "gumball" light, and a semi-marked variety that is painted in colors other than blue and marked only on the passenger side. Available in tan, red, white, silver, and black, these units also use hidden LED lights to increase their effectiveness and have been extremely successful. Michigan state law requires that police vehicles be marked at least on the passenger side; a law that dates back to the days of the "side stop."[] citation needed
MSP Capitol Patrol Car
Both the rotating overhead light and the shark fin have traditionally been synonymous with the MSP. The shark fin was used for a side stop, which was employed when a Trooper was stopping another vehicle. The Trooper would pull along the driver's side of the vehicle he wished to stop and would activate the shark fin's light, alerting the other driver that he was to pull over. The side stop is no longer used by the department. The rotating red light has been used by the MSP since 1960 and the current style red overhead light has been in use by the agency since 1979. The bright red-pink hue of the light is striking and it makes the patrol car recognizable as a Michigan State Police car from several miles away. The red overhead lights on some MSP cars are 20-25 years old. The use of a single rotating light by the department has been criticized for its ineffectiveness at warning drivers approaching the vehicle from angles other than from the front or rear, such as cross-traffic at intersections. In response to these complaints, most patrol vehicles are equipped with strobe lights in the side marker lenses, as well as flashing headlights and taillights. Both the blue hue of the patrol cars and the red hue of the rotating overhead light are distinctive and unique to the MSP; the department has used the blue paint scheme and the current door decals since 1956.[] citation needed