Subscribe to our FREE Annuity Rate Update Newsletter.
First Name
Advantages of Annuities
To understand the advantages of annuities and why one should opt for them it is first essential to understand what and annuity is and the various types of annuities that one can select from. An annuity is basically an agreement or a contract that an individual has with an insurance company. The individual makes regular payments or a one-time payment and the insurance company assures him or her income in the future....
Annuities Are Better Than Other Investments
Saving and investments are necessary to safeguard our future from unexpected risks as well as to cushion ourselves from financial shocks. But at the same time, it is necessary to display an acute sense of financial prudence, especially, when it boils down to choosing investment tools. Today's investor has many investment options at his disposal...
Annuities vs. Traditional Investment Tools
Annuities are contracts that are offered by insurance companies to the general public. Investors are assured a pre-determined rate of return on their investment. It is possible to buy an annuity with a premium or several premium payments. Annuities are ideally used to create a retirement plan that ensures that the investors have a regular...
Tax Benefits of Annuities
Annuities are basically investment tools that provide the investor a guaranteed rate of return and a steady income for life. They are offered by insurance companies and are state regulated and hence are a secure investment that should be considered by all...
Top Reasons to Invest in Annuities I
Investing in one's future is probably one of the best ways to spend your money. The working years should ideally be used to create a retirement plan that helps keep those golden years secure and free of financial worries. Most investors wish to put their money ...
Top Reasons to Invest in Annuities II
Life has its ups and downs and savings and investments make life secure and stable. Often people wonder how to invest in their income in a manner to get the best return with the least risk. Annuities are insurance contracts offered by various insurance companies...
Why Invest in an Annuity?
Imagine retiring from your hectic work routine with a regular source of income. Imagine your savings working as hard as you do to ensure that you have a nest egg for your retirement. Imagine an investment that helps your savings compound. Annuities are an ideal investment plan...
Why Invest in Annuities?
"Why invest in annuities?" this question can easily be replaced with another, "why invest in your future?" Because, simply put, annuities offer individuals a chance to secure their financial future and also provide tax benefits. Annuities are contracts offered by insurance companies that promise a certain rate of interest on the premium paid by the investor...
Why Opt for Annuities?
The basic purpose of working professionals is to provide a source of livelihood and security for themselves and their families. In a world where inflation and price rise is a certainty, it is essential that an individual save some part of their income in a manner that it works for them, provides tax benefits and provides substantial interest. The crucial question that arises is how...