Cooperative Extension Service Home
Professor, Plant Pathology fnlee@uark.edu   * *   Dr. Lee emphasizes basic and applied research to provide critical control strategies and technology to counter consequential changes in rice disease incidence and severity resulting from a continual change in cultivars grown and in cultural practices.Fleet N. Lee, Ph.D.
Research Overview and Projects
Evaluation of Systemic Fungicides for Use in the Arkansas Drill Seeded Production Systems
Although not limited to specific diseases, particular research emphasis is on rice sheath blight, estimated to cost Arkansas producers a minimum of $20,000,000 each year in yield loss alone, and rice blast, which frequently rivals or surpasses sheath blight in economic importance. Although erratic from year to year, rice blast has caused tremendous yield losses and has decimated individual fields throughout the state.   Recent research focuses are:
* To control predominate rice diseases, growers currently utilize an integrated control system exploiting useful components of standard disease control methodology including host resistance, cultural manipulation (fertility, flood, tillage) and fungicide applications. * Rice quarantine efforts to limit the introduction of new diseases. Newly acquired rice entries are evaluated for potentially useful disease resistance genes. * Greenhouse and field disease nurseries to evaluate germplasm reaction to rice diseases, particularly rice blast and sheath blight. * Root zone mediated durable rice blast resistance with specific emphasis on the role of oxygen and ethylene. * Vulnerability of red rice to the rice blast pathogen, the movement of introduced blast resistance genes from white rice to red rice and blast pathogen overwintering in red rice stubble. * Definition and quatification of inherent genetic cold tolerance and resistance to seedling diseases with emphasis on the individual role of each in developing cold tolerant disease resistant varieties for very early planting. * Potential role and utilization of efficacious systemic rice blast fungicides in drill seed rice culture.
Much of the research is cooperative with other disciplines and pathologists. Cooperative research efforts include cultivar development, developing new molecular disease markers, evaluation of related Oryza species for useful disease resistance genes, and searching for new resistance genes in Oryza sativa.
 