Mapping Services
Map Design for the Internet
The Internet allows non-cartographic specialists in various fields to collect, modify and publish geospatial information for an increasing number of applications. This widespread use can be problematic since these new information technologies allow end-users to quickly produce maps which are not necessarily compliant with cartographic design standards. In addition, the Internet has many limitations and constraints as a mapping environment. This section of the site addresses cartographic design strategies for the World Wide Web, some of which are also under discussion by the Design Group of the . British Cartographic Society
Technical problems: limitations to the medium; standards and implications for cartographic variables such as colour matching, along with text placement, scale, and screen size
Multimedia presentation: strategies for integration of maps, graphics, text, audio narratives, sounds, etc. in the Web environment
Cartographic communication: maps as interfaces, preservation of communication, cognitive and decision-support functions of maps (level of detail, interactivity, data quality, accuracy, etc.)
This map of Nunavut lets the user hear place names pronounced in Inuktitut. The inclusion of these pronunciations has a transformative effect on the map; with the cartographic image firmly established, the map moves away from the graphic to embrace an alternate medium. This way, the traditional cartographic vocabulary is extended, and the communication value of the map is multiplied.
The picture map shows a slight departure from the other maps discussed in this section. Here we see how the palette was explored to minimize competition to the most dominant information on the map: type.
The air travel map demonstrates the freedom that is available when the rigidity of the grid is rejected as an absolute. The road map uses textures which demand less of the colour palette (which is continued from other maps in this section). The shoreline vignette lends emphasis to the figure/ground relationship.
The Nunavut locator map uses the Web palette to great advantage. Greens and blue are the foundation of this map, with textures playing against the smooth colours to command the attention of the viewer.
The Iqaluit base map is derived from the map files generated to produce the . The commemorative map served as the starting point to craft the base map used for several applications on this site. Iqaluit commemorative map
Date Modified:2008-12-31