Entries RSS
Lake Las Vegas Real Estate and Homes
The most beautiful homes that the city that never sleeps has to offer have to be the Lake Las Vegas homes. These homes provide an array of choices for homebuyers. Interested residents can choose from water front properties, custom built homes, town homes, fairway homes, or golf villa condominiums. Every view from each one of these choices is truly breath taking. These particular homes give residents a place to vacation or use as a full time residence.
The Lake Las Vegas homes are located in southern Nevada neatly planted upon an exquisite mountainside with the serene lake that is always in view. These homes are built upon 2,245 acres of land that is located in Henderson, Nevada through the mountainside. This community of homes is just 17 miles from the Las Vegas Strip. Your entertainment get away is just minutes away from your new home in Las Vegas. The Lake Las Vegas homes provide residents with spas and world-class hotels. There are championship golf courses and some of the best residential properties in the city.
Being close to the Las Vegas Strip gives this community of homes quite a unique view. The lights of the big city and the serene mountains serve as the backdrop for this community. The Strip is only 40 minutes away from the property. A short drive is all it takes to start taking in all that Las Vegas has to offer. The Lake Las Vegas homes are divided into 19 neighborhoods to provide residents with a home that is not only secure, but unlike any other Las Vegas community. These homes are also nearby two of the most famous and elite hotels in the city. The Hyatt Regency and the Ritz Carlton are nearly on your doorstep when you choose a Lake Las Vegas home.
Besides the breath taking view of the lake and the surrounding property, Lake Las Vegas homes provide residents with two well-known championship golf courses with the mountains as the background. This community of homes also has other private and public golf courses for their residents and guests. The Falls Golf Club is part of the Lake Las Vegas Resort and is the course offered by Tom Weiskopf. Jack Nicklaus is another name that golfers out there will know. He is responsible for bringing the Reflection Bay Golf Club to the map for the Lake Las Vegas community. Any home purchased here at Lake Las Vegas for permanent or vacation stay would be worth your while. The views alone pay for themselves.
Search all Las Vegas Homes with our easy to use Las Vegas MLS.
TOLL FREE (866) 240-6522 Email:
RE/MAX - Associates