What's the difference? Database vs. website
Find print and online information for popular research topics. Research Guides
Funk & Wagnall's New World Encyclopedia
For students and adults alike, the database indexes over 25,000 encyclopedia articles. Full text for each record may be easily accessed by double clicking on the topic from the display. You will need to enter your library card barcode number. Funk & Wagnall's New Encyclopedia
Not in the library?
> Home Databases
Biographical Information
This database includes biographical information on over 300,000 people throughout history and around the world.    Gale Biography Resource Center
Magazine/Newspaper Articles
This database offers a wide range of reference materials and newspaper/magazine articles.  Use it for research on almost every topic. (You will need to enter your library card barcode number) EBSCOHost
Access this database from outside the library.
Link directly to the online version of the New York Times. New York Times
Find articles from more than 250 national, international, and local newspapers, news wires, and television news programs. You will need to enter your library card barcode number. Newspaper Source
Not in the library?
Auto Repair
Find repair procedures, recall information, wiring diagrams and more for cars manufactured after 1954.  You will need Adobe Acrobat software to view some pages.  (You will need to enter your library card barcode number) Auto Repair Reference Center
Access this database from outside the library.
For Avid Readers
This database allows you to search by author, title or series for book summaries.  It also helps you find books you may enjoy. (You will need to enter your library card barcode number) Novelist
Access this database from outside the library.
Health & Medicine
(CHC) This is the single most comprehensive resource for consumer-oriented health content. CHC provides content covering all areas of health and wellness from mainstream medicine to the many perspectives of complementary, holistic and integrated medicine. This full text database covers topics such as aging, cancer, diabetes, drugs & alcohol, fitness, nutrition & dietetics, children's health, men & women's health, etc. You will need to enter your library card barcode number Consumer Health Complete
Not in the library?.
The Guide covers diseases, disorders, treatments, procedures, specialties, anatomy, biology, and issues in an A-Z format, with sidebars addressing recent developments in medicine and concise information boxes for all diseases and disorders. A useful resource for students (high school, college), consumers and even medical school students.   Magill's Medical Guide
Magill's Medical Guide is for in-library use only. It is not available for home use.
Business Resources
Search for full text articles in all disciplines of business, including marketing, management, MIS, POM, accounting, finance and economics. You will need to enter your library card barcode number. Business Source Premier
Not in the library?
Search for business news articles from different regions of the world. You will need to enter your library card barcode number. Regional Business News
Not in the library?
(in library use only) Get information about mutual funds. Morningstar
(in library use only) Investment information.  Ask Librarian for help logging into this site. Investor's Business Daily Online
(San Diego & Orange Counties) (in library use only) Search database of local businesses by location, type of business and number of employees. Inside Prospects
Business & Residential Directory
Find residential address and phone information in addition to business directory information. Reference USA
California Jobs
Search for California jobs and post your resume. CalJOBS
Practice Tests
Improve your scores on academic, civil service, military or professional certification exams. Practice test taking skills. (You will need to enter your library card barcode number) Learn a test