Featured Products
 Innovative Amplifiers Help Mobile Professionals Keep In Touch
Designed especially for the businessperson on the go, Wilson’s  offers the ultimate in portability and flexibility. It features the compact amplifier and built-in antenna, allowing for wireless operation with no physical connection to cell phone or data card, and it can support multiple cell phones and data cards simultaneously. SignalBoost Mobile Professional Amplifier
Available with a 12" magnet mount or a 4" mini-magnet mount, the Mobile Pro easily moves from vehicle to building, because the kits include an outside magnet-mount antenna, USB power cable, DC power supply with USB port, AC power supply with USB port, suction cup window-mount antenna bracket, dashboard bracket, carry bag, and installation guide.
Mobile Cellular Signal Amplifier Kit with Cradle
Enhancing cellular signal within a vehicle has never been easier! Wilson Electronics has taken the best-selling . All of the necessary cables, connectors and power adapters are included in the box, so with one SKU your customers are good to go! SignalBoost amplifier, and coupled it with the new inductive cradle and an external, dual-band antenna
The New Unit Features
Phone cradle features built-in coupler
Supports all U.S. Cellular and PCS carriers
Plug and play – everything needed is in the box
Installs in minutes – no special tools required
Also available is the  This unit allows you to hook up an antenna or amplifier directly to your phone cradle, which will enhance your cellular signal. Perfect for use in any vehicle! stand alone inductive coupler phone cradle.
Accessories
TESSCO carries a complete line of adapters, antennas, and amplifiers for nearly any wireless phone or data card. Just visit our , enter the manufacturer and model of your phone/data card, and look under the Antenna Adapter Cable section or RF Power Amp for compatible products. Phone Accessories Search Page
Wilson Electronics Can Help Improve Reception, Battery Life and Data Speed
The new  is , apartments, condominiums, and dormitories, and features 50dB of gain. No connection is needed to the cell phone or data card! Wilson In-Building Wireless Dual-Band SOHO Cellular/PCS Amplifier specifically for home or small office environments
 for Wilson’s mobile amplifiers that allow for their permanent installation in vehicles—available for , and  .Hardwire Kits 12V DC powered amplifiers 6V DC powered amplifiers
Mini Magnetic Mount Antenna
Wilson Electronics Dual-Band Wireless Amplifier Kits!
Make it easier for your customers to get the benefits of a Wilson wireless mobile amplifier system without the hassles of finding the right parts.  TESSCO offers complete Wilson dual-band wireless amplifier solutions.  Select the  or the  bundle. Both kits include the necessary mounts, cables and connectors! Cellular/PCS dual band wireless in-vehicle bi-directional amplifier and external full-sized magnetic mount antenna cellular/PCS dual band wireless in-vehicle bi-directional amplifier and mini magnetic mount antenna
Everything You Need to Support Wireless Communications
Wilson, the brand best known for its , is now in stock at TESSCO.  From  and  to  and , TESSCO is Your Total Source supplier for Wilson antennas and amplifiers. Choose the , among others. Now, on one purchase order, TESSCO can deliver all the components you need to support your wireless phone customers.
trucker antenna and mobile and in-building amplifiersyagison-glassmini-mountsmag mounts PCS and Dual Band Cellular Antennas
For more information contact TESSCO at  today.
888-256-9220