click any image for enlarged view
EL wire bra with animated spiral - the hypnobra™
Here at , this is by far our favorite style of EL lighting for a bra. The colorful spirals accentuate the natural curves of the body while making them hypnotically irresistible to anyone who dares to look in your direction.Enlighted
Repeat after me: "Everyone loves the hypnobra! Everyone loves the hypnobra!"
a still shot and simulated animated view of a hypnobra in dim lighting - for actual animation, see this
a long-exposure shot of the hypnobra in brighter lighting, examples of other color combinations
detailed views of a spiral bra with black background
spiral EL bra with multi-colored striped background
as seen on , on the Univision TV network Control
animated wave design with EL wire
This bra is decorated with five colors of EL wire, sewn together in a series of wavy flame-like shapes that are animated in a pulsing pattern.
front view of bra
detailed view of hand sewn EL wire
this design was part of a matching bra and set - of the actual animation belt video clip
animated EL wire shamrock design
Display your Irish heritage (and cleavage) with this lime green lighted bra, and every day can be St. Patrick's day! This whimsical design features EL wire shamrocks with an animated flashing pattern. If you aren't already feeling lucky, you will be by the end of the evening. Trust us.
still shot and simulated animated view of the shamrock bra in dim lighting - see this for actual animation
closeup, view from another angle
two views in brighter lighting
 
abstract flame design made with EL wire
An abstract flickering flame design was created on this bra, using pink, red, orange, and gold EL wire on the outside of a black bra. Approximately 20 feet of wire was used for this effect.
Here is a second variation of the same design, with blue and purple added to the color scheme (along with red, orange, and gold).
Video clip showing sample animation. () clip 1
pink bra with EL outlines
EL wire can also be used for a relatively simple bra decoration, with a steady glowing outline as shown here.
black bra with pink EL wire hearts
views bra in bright and dim light, with animation demonstrating use of the on/off switch
This design with pink EL wire hearts was created for a stage production of , where the performer controlled the activation of each light (as shown in the animated example). Gypsy
detail of pink heart, full body view showing matching light-up bottoms
black corset with violet EL wire trim
Violet EL wire was applied to the seams of this beaded corset, for a subtle, sophisticated look.
two full views of the EL wire corset, detailed view of beading and hand-sewn trim in bright light
as seen on , on the Univision TV network Control
how to order
We have a variety of lighted bra designs available - please see our for pricing and a listing of colors, styles, and sizes that are currently in stock. ready-made orders page
The bras shown on this page are examples of previous custom orders. We can make replicas of these designs, and will also create new designs by request, if you'd like a particular light layout or color combination.
Price estimates for the items shown on this page (when built as custom orders):
Spiral EL hypnobra with spinning animation - available with 3, 4, or 5 spirals: - cost depends on bra size and the amount of lighting, usually between $250 and $350
Green bra with EL wire shamrocks: $250 Black bra with animated EL flames: $350 Pink bra with EL wire outline: $100 Black bra with pink EL wire hearts: $250 Black corset with violet EL wire trim: $350
Pricing and availability are subject to change, please see our for more information. custom orders page