Top 10 Reasons why Extension educators should come to Michigan
1.Great Lakes
Michigan, the Great Lake State, is bordered by four of the five Great Lakes, jutting out as two main peninsulas into the largest fresh water reserve in the world. Over 11,000 inland lakes also grace Michigan and provide unique opportunities for recreation, industry and management.
Michigan has great diversity in agriculture, both in the range of crops and animals raised, as well as thriving industries and niche markets such as nursery and landscaping, orchards, greenhouses, Christmas trees, turfgrass, organic food, aquaculture, maple syrup, and forestry. This diversity is derived from wide variations in soil types, topography, climate and economic conditions in the state.2. Great agricultural diversity
Not only is Michigan diverse in its production, but it leads the natiproduction of many commodities and specialties: 1st in cherries and 8th in milk makes for a great ice cream sundae; 4th in apples and peaches, 8th in strawberries and 6th in honey and spearmint makes a delicious fruit salad; 1st in dry beans, 3rd in asparagus, 5th in sugar beets, 7th in corn and 8th in alfalfa rounds out a great menu! Come and taste!3. Great agriculture
The 2007 conference will provide more hours, more opportunities, more training than ever before. You’ll head home with new knowledge, ideas and opportunities.4. Great professional improvement
Bring your family and enjoy Michigan! The west coast of Michigan is only 35 miles from our meeting site and the entire area is blessed with beauty and activities.5. Great vacation possibilities!
Located in downtown Grand Rapids, along the banks of the Grand River, the meeting site is within walking distance of fine dining, museums, shopping, and theater and entertainment venues. The Amway Grand Plaza Hotel, our headquarters is a four star beauty, rich in old elegance, and connected to the new glitz of the DeVoss Place Convention Center. You’ll enjoy this bustling city. Plan your budget for 2007 and find out that this conference will not break your budget. That’s great! Lodging rooms costs are the lowest in years, meals are included and the benefits are great. Michigan Agriculture College, founded in 1855 was the first land-grant college in America and it continues to lead. Today the MAES and MSUE have gained a national and international reputation for excellence in research and outreach. The Gerald R. Ford International Airport is a major hub for flights. You’ll find it easy to schedule your travel by air. For those driving, you can come north along Lake Michigan, cross it by ferry or arrive via highway. Michigan is the state that built the auto industry makes your way easy and without tolls. Michigan Extension Educators and all of MSU is looking forward to hosting you. You’ll want to bring your colleagues, bring your administrators, and bring your family. Make your plans to come enjoy and learn!6. Grand Rapids is great!
7. Great value
8. MSU, the great-granddaddy of land-grant institutions
9. Great access