George washington
1) George Washington Known for maintaining of slaves (1789-1797)
First American president George Washington. Father died in 1743. At that time, George was only 11 years old. Ownership of 11 slaves along with other wealth of his father, transferred to his name. After up to 1759 slaves number with George raised to 36. and in1774 numbers of slaves increased up to 135. He had paid the taxes on slaves required to be paid as per laws prevailing at that time.
2) End of Slavery (1861-1865)
Abraham Lincoln
2) End of Slavery:- (1861-18650 ) Abraham Lincoln known for end of slavery.
Abraham Lincoln :- He raised to the post of President under very adverse condition. He brought to an end the slavery- tradition of America. He succeeded in bringing country out from internal conflict.
Richard Nixon picture
3) Trickle down in water gate scam. (1969-1974)
Richard Nixon: Regime of president Nixon became famous due to water gate scam. Finally he had to resign. Water gate scam is seen as American political misconduct series. On 17 Th June 1972, five persons, who had broken down the office of the national committee of democratic party of America, situated in premises of Water gate complex in Newyork and entered into office, were arrested. Inquiry made in this case by Federal B euro of investigation (F.B.I.), Nos of irregularities in this office in respect of election campaign, political spying, conspiracy, and misappropriation in political funds, has been noticed. In this case inquiry against nos of colleague nearest to Richard Nixon had been launched.
John.F.Kennedy
4) On threshold of Nuclear war.
John. F. Kennedy (1961-1963). There was a clamor as some photographs which showed the missiles brought by then USSR in Cuba, were found by America. Nuclear war would had been started if place, where missiles were kept had been targeted by America. But at the same time if these missiles were fired by USSR then America would not have got chance to to defend its self. In that circumstances John F. Kennedy had shown extreme restrain and did the negotiation with USSR and showed the way out peacefully.
Harry-Truman
Decision of Dropping of Atom bomb :-
6) Harry-Truman:- (1945-1953)
Harry Truman took decision of throwing of atom bomb on cities of Nagasaki & Herosima of Japan during second world war. In 1947 he took important part in creation of country Isaraiel in west Asia.
Bill-Clinton ex president
Disgrace of Impeachment.
7) Bill Clinton (1993-2001)
There was an discussion all over the world due to his physical intimacy with a girl employee of 22 years old named Monica Lewinsky of white house. In this case he gave a false affidavit and brought an obstacle in judicial proceeding. Because of this allegations , house of people granted permission to start Impeachment proceeding against Bill Clinton. He is the only second president who had to face such type of ignominy after Andre Johnson. After discussion for 21 days in Senate, voting was done and he was then freed from allegations.
George-w-Bush president
Aggression on Iraq:-
George w Bush( 2001- up to this date) 41th president of America, son of George walker Bush. Due to terrorist attack on 11 September 2001, America was shocked. Declaring Osama bin Laden and his organization behind this attack, America had tried his level best to catch Osama bin laden live or dead but he has not been caught yet. At the same time, by alleging that Iraq had dreadful chemical weapons, Aggression was made against Iraq and Iraq’s president was arrested by American army and was sued in court and finally he was hanged to death. In recently held press conference in Iraq, a press reporter has thrown the shoe towards the direction where George w Bush was seated.
 