Supporting the most effective use of technology in classrooms and schools
Speakers
Mission
Mission
The mission of the Discovery Education Speakers Bureau is to identify, encourage, and promote the most effective use of technology in classrooms and schools. It supports teaching and learning for 21st century students through thought leadership and shared best practices. The DESB strives to communicate the most effective ways students learn, assist teachers with the latest technology available for instruction, and advance strategies for raising measurable achievement. The Discovery Education Speakers Bureau is committed to bringing the achievable future into the classrooms and schools of today.
About Us
The Discovery Education Speakers Bureau has given presentations to more than 200,000 educators in over 30 states and on four continents. Members of the DESB have taught classes from kindergarten through college and have deep connections to real world education. They include early adopters of classroom blogging, content creation, community building, and media management.
The Discovery Education Speakers Bureau and the represent commitments by to raising the quality of the media environment for education and the understanding of its effective use. Discovery Educator Network Discovery Communications
Discovery Communications
The Discovery Education Speakers Bureau is part of Discovery Education, a unit of Discovery Communications, the leading global real-world and knowledge-based media company and the largest non-fiction media company on earth.Discovery Communications encompasses the Discovery Networks, including Discovery Channel, Animal Planet, Science Channel, two Spanish language networks, and the Discovery Stores.
Discovery was born in 1982 as the Cable Education Network.Its mission was to createthe content, shighest quality informative and entertainingervices and products to help peopleexplore their world.Discovery is now the biggest non-fiction media company in the world reaching 1.5 billion total subscribers in 35 languages and in more than 170 countries.Established in 2004 as the newest division of Discovery Communications, Discovery Education harnesses and extends the power of the company's educational assets. Discovery Education is the leading provider of Internet-based video education services. It is able to take advantage of its access to landmark programming like PLANET EARTH and ATLAS and move this content onto the online educational environment where thousands of educators now have daily access to them. More
Discovery Communications takes seriously its commitment to using the power of technology to make a positive difference in the lives of children and adults around the world.Its programs include the Discovery Channel Global Education Partnership, the Discovery Channel Young Scientist Challenge, SILVERDOCS, the AFI/Discovery Channel Documentary Festival, and many similar programs. More
Discovery Education
Discovery Education is committed to creating standards-based digital resources for teachers, students, and parents that makes a positive impact on student learning.Through strategic partnerships with public television stations, regional and state institutions, and through public service initiatives, products, and joint business ventures, Discovery Education helps educators around the world harness the power of broadband and media.Discovery Education's products and services reach over 90,000 schools and 35 million students across the United States. More
The Discovery Educator Network
The Discovery Educator Network (DEN) is a global community of educators passionate about teaching with digital media, sharing resources, collaborating, and networking. With over 20,000 members worldwide providing professional development to over 250,000 educators, the DEN connects teachers both online and face to face.Discovery Educators have exclusive access to a wide range of resources, professional development activities, networking opportunities, exclusive Discovery Educator events and . more
Other members of the Discovery family
DiscoverySchool.com
DiscoverySchool.com is dedicated to making teaching and learning an exciting, rewarding adventure for students, teachers, and parents. With Kathy Schrock's Guide for Educators, Lesson Planners, Puzzlemaker, Clip Art Gallery, and more, DiscoverySchool.com remains one of most popular sites for teachers on the web. More
Discovery New Media
Discoverys New Media includes Video on Demand, broadband video delivery, iTV, enhanced TV, mobile media through cell phones, and interactive educational games. Discovery New Media content has been integrated into Google Earth and into channel programs such as PLANET EARTH. More More+
Discovery Stores
There are more than 100 Discovery Channel Stores in the U.S. Forty million visitors annually pass through these stores, all of which offer educator discounts. Ninety-seven countries have Discovery licensed products. Discovery Commerce generates six billion consumer impressions worldwide. More Blog