Euclidean geometry is a mathematical well-known system attributed to the Greek mathematician Euclid of Alexandria.
See also:
Mathematical Modeling
Euclid's text Elements was the first systematic discussion of geometry.
It has been one of the most influential books in history, as much for its method as for its mathematical content.
The method consists of assuming a small set of intuitively appealing axioms, and then proving many other propositions (theorems) from those axioms.
Although many of Euclid's results had been stated by earlier Greek mathematicians, Euclid was the first to show how these propositions could be fitted together into a comprehensive deductive and logical system..
For more information about the topic , read the full article at , or see the following related articles:Euclidean geometry Wikipedia.org
— Geometry arose as the field of knowledge dealing with spatial relationships. Geometry was one of the two fields of pre-modern mathematics, the other ...  > 
— Wikipedia contains a number of articles with mathematical ...  >  List of mathematical proofs read more
This page refers to an article that is licensed under the . It uses material from the article at Wikipedia.org. See the page for more details.Note: GNU Free Documentation License Euclidean geometry Wikipedia copyright
 
Related Stories
— Knowing how a mathematical theory developed improves a pupil's understanding of it. This is the conclusion of Dutch researcher Iris van Gulik, who investigated how the history of mathematics can help ...  >  Euclid Returns To Maths Lessons (December 21, 2005) read more
— New computer tools have the potential to revolutionize the practice of mathematics by providing more-reliable proofs of mathematical results than have ever been possible in the history of humankind. ...  >  Computers Effective In Verifying Mathematical Proofs (November 7, 2008) read more
— A mathematician at the University of York has been awarded a Research Leadership Award to study the geometry of viruses. Dr Reidun Twarock will study the structure and assembly of viruses, which will ...  >  Mathematician Probes Geometric Route To Combat Viruses (April 4, 2007) read more
— Geometry problems are best solved by a combination of verbal and spatial strategies, but not shape-based imagery ...  >  Certain Types Of Thinking Are Best Suited To Certain Types Of Problem-solving (November 12, 2008) read more
— Researchers in France and at Harvard University have found that isolated indigenous peoples deep in the Amazon readily grasp basic concepts of geometry such as points, lines, parallelism and right ...  >  Indigenous Amazonians Display Core Understanding Of Geometry (January 23, 2006) read more
Number of stories in archives: 44,032
Find with keyword(s):
 
Enter a keyword or phrase to search ScienceDaily's archives for related news topics, the latest news stories, reference articles, science videos, images, and books.
 