Compare Planets
Uranus
To the eye alone, Uranus is a dull planet. It looks like a featureless blue-green ball, with few of the dynamic cloud patterns that decorate and . Yet Uranus may have the most interesting history of any planet in the solar system: A collision soon after its birth may have knocked the planet sideways. Jupiter Saturn
View in 2008
This false-color Hubble Space Telescope image reveals clouds in Uranus’ atmosphere (orange), the planet’s rings, and three moons. Earth Sun
Detecting and tracking the clouds on Uranus is difficult, however. Uranus is so far away that it appears as little more than a fuzzy green blob in ground-based telescopes. A layer of haze atop the atmosphere gives Uranus a uniform blue-green color, hiding most of the cloud formations that move around the planet. Not until recent years, when astronomers began using telescopes that could overcome the distorting effects of Earth's atmosphere, did they begin to see detailed features. Infrared and ultraviolet instruments attached to these telescopes penetrate the haze, allowing astronomers to see deeper into the planet's atmosphere.
Even then, there's not a lot to see. Uranus receives little heat from the Sun, and it does not produce much on its own, so there is no energy source to produce the dramatic cloud bands and weather systems seen on other worlds.
Like Jupiter and Saturn, an envelope of hydrogen and helium lies below the thin upper layers of Uranus' atmosphere. On Uranus, though, the layer of hydrogen and helium is not as thick as on the larger planets, extending perhaps only one-fifth of the distance down from its cloudtops.
A liquid or partially frozen mixture of water, methane, and rocky minerals may lie beneath the hydrogen and helium. Unlike the region where the oceans and air meet on Earth, though, there probably isn't a sharp boundary between the layers of Uranus. The atmospheric pressure is so great that the liquid and gas merge in a slushy transition zone. This zone surrounds a dense, rocky core.
Narrow rings encircle Uranus, but their material is darker than charcoal, so astronomers didn't discover them until 1977, when the rings blocked the light of a star that was about to pass behind Uranus. The rings are the thinnest of any planet in the solar system, consisting of a single layer of particles. Some of the particles are as large as SUVs, though, which is far larger than most particles in the rings of other planets. These large particles suggest that the rings formed fairly recently, when a small moon was pulverized by a collision with a comet or asteroid.
Literary Moons: Titania, Oberon, Ariel, and Umbriel
Tall cliffs and wrinkles of ice dominate the surface of Miranda (above). Recent impact craters show up as bright white spots on the surface of Ariel (lower left). A global view of Titania in false color (lower right).
A Midsummer Night's DreamThe Rape of the Lock
Titania is Uranus' largest moon. Small impact craters and long, tall cracks scar its icy crust. The cracks probably formed as the gravity of Uranus and its other moons pulled and twisted Titania.
The most interesting moon may be Miranda, which has canyons up to 12 miles (20 km) deep. It, too, may have been reshaped by the gravitational pull of Uranus and its moons.
Although it's the third-largest planet in the solar system, it's so far from the Sun that you need binoculars to see it. It spends the year in the constellation Aquarius. It stages its best appearance in September.View in 2008
Uranus's Moons
1. Cordelia 2. Ophelia 3. Bianca 4. Cressida 5. Desdemona 6. Juliet 7. Portia
8. Rosalind 9. Mab 10. Belinda 11. Perdita 12. Puck 13. Cupid 14. Miranda
15. Francisco 16. Ariel 17. Umbriel 18. Titania 19. Oberon 20. Caliban 21. Stephano
22. Trinculo 23. Sycorax 24. Margaret 25. Prospero 26. Setebos 27. Ferdinand