 
SERVICES & BENEFITS
Healing work is all about love—not love in the romantic sense, but love expressed in an attentive, focused, and humanitarian way. Expressing our essence and intent to provide relief and healing, our vibration energy can communicate with that of another to remember the healing flow of life-energy and enhance the healing process.
 
 
From The Feet Up can revitalize your life—body, mind and soul. We exist to bring you hope, healing, and an awareness of the connection between these aspects of your being. We do this by offering two slightly different healing services: Reflexology and Therapeutic Touch.
is a focused pressure technique usually applied to your feet or hands. It is based on the premise that reflexes on these zones correspond to other parts, glands and organs of your body. When these reflexes are stimulated, so are the corresponding areas. This in turn dissolves any deposits or blockages in the electromagnetic passageways between these zones, thereby restoring the natural flow of energy throughout your body.Reflexology
is a contemporary version of several ancient healing practices. Using this technique, I establish a process of energy enhancement between us. Like Reflexology, it is a form of energy work, but instead of reflexes, I focus my mind and compassion directly on your body’s energy field, using my hands to facilitate the intent and direction of the flow.Therapeutic Touch
 
BENEFITS
The specific benefits you will achieve from my healing services are as many and varied as the clients who seek treatment. I help others with all kinds of physical, psychological and spiritual troubles from A to Z… from arthritis, broken bones, cancer, diabetes, depression, low energy, fibromyalgia, and migraines, to recovery from surgery and much more. Here are just a few of the benefits you can gain from my services:
, which assists your body to normalize metabolism.Enhanced circulation
. Your life situation may be one that is causing you too-high levels of stress, which can take a toll physically, mentally and spiritually (e.g., you’re a student under great pressure of exams and deadlines; you’re seeking work; or, you’re overworked and in great need of a time-out). Relaxation is the key, and my treatments are excellent ways to encourage your body to do just that. Once relaxed you are better able to control the negative effects of stress.Reduced effects of negative stress
. Many health organizations have come to recognize the power of Reflexology and Therapeutic Touch as legitimate complements to traditional western healing modalities. In fact, the MS Society and the ALS Society both acknowledge the benefits of this energy work for patients and they encourage members to try these avenues for relief. Allergy sufferers and those with other immune disorders have sought and found relief from symptoms, and some have even been freed of the disorder entirely.More thorough health care
. Illness and disease are difficult enough without further aggravation from medication. Reflexology and Therapeutic Touch minimize side effects and enhance healing.Faster healing time and reduced negative effects of medication
Do you want to know more? Contact us at info@fromthefeetup.com