     v d e
Some and make a distinction between . (also called or ) are which are not contingent upon the laws, customs, or beliefs of a particular society or . In contrast, (sometimes also called or ) are rights conveyed by a particular polity, codified into legal by some form of , and as such are contingent upon local laws, customs, or beliefs. Natural rights are thus necessarily , whereas legal rights are culturally and politically . philosophers political scientists natural and legal rightsNatural rights moral rights inalienable rights rights polity legal rights civil rights statutory rights statutes legislature universal relative
Blurring the lines between natural and legal rights, U.S. statesman believed that some rights, such as , are , arising neither from nor from but from the from which a government derives its authority. James Madison trial by jury social rights natural law positive law social contract [1]
Contents
[] edit Overview
The question of which (if any) are natural and which are merely legal is an important one in and . Critics of the concept of natural rights argue that the only rights that exist are legal rights, while proponents of the concept of natural rights say that documents such as the and the demonstrate the usefulness of recognizing natural rights. The focus of natural rights in the is expressed in the legal philosophy known as . rights philosophy politics United States Declaration of Independence Universal Declaration of Human Rights United States Declaration of Independence Declarationism
The theory of is closely related to the theory of natural rights. During the , natural law theory challenged the , and became an alternative justification for the establishment of a , , and and thus legal rights in the form of . Conversely, the concept of natural rights is used by some to challenge the legitimacy of all such political establishments. natural law Age of Enlightenment divine right of kings social contract positive law government classical republicanism anarchists
The idea of is also closely related to that of natural rights; some recognize no difference between the two and regard both as labels for the same thing, while others choose to keep the terms separate to eliminate association with some features traditionally associated with natural rights. Natural rights, in particular, are considered beyond the authority of any government or to dismiss. The is an important enshrining one conception of natural rights into international . human rights [2] international body Universal Declaration of Human Rights legal instrument soft law
The idea that is one that has gained the interest of philosophers and legal scholars in the 20th century, and as such, even on a natural rights conception of human rights, the two terms may not be synonymous. animals have natural rights [3]
[] edit History
While the existence of legal rights has always been uncontroversial, the idea that certain rights are natural or inalienable also has a long history dating back at least to the of , and descending through the and the to today. Stoics Late Antiquity Protestant Reformation Age of Enlightenment
[] edit Ancient history
The held that no one was a slave by their nature; slavery was an external condition juxtaposed to the internal freedom of the soul (). wrote: Stoics sui juris Seneca the Younger
It is a mistake to imagine that slavery pervades a man's whole being; the better part of him is exempt from it: the body indeed is subjected and in the power of a master, but the mind is independent, and indeed is so free and wild, that it cannot be restrained even by this prison of the body, wherein it is confined. [4]
Likewise, the notion of inalienable rights was found in early and , which denied a ruler "the right to take away from his subjects certain rights which inhere in his or her person as a human being." Islamic rulers could not take away certain rights from their subjects on the basis that "they become rights by of the fact that they are given to a subject by a law and from a source which no ruler can question or alter." These ideas may have later influenced 's concept of inalienable rights through his attendance of lectures given by , a professor of . Islamic law jurisprudence reason [5] John Locke Edward Pococke Arabic studies [6]
[] edit Medieval history
Further information might be found on the .Please help by expanding it. improve this section talk page
(October 2008)
[] edit Modern history
Centuries later, the Stoic doctrine that the "inner part cannot be delivered into bondage" re-emerged in the doctrine of liberty of conscience. wrote: [7] Reformation Martin Luther
Furthermore, every man is responsible for his own faith, and he must see it for himself that he believes rightly. As little as another can go to hell or heaven for me, so little can he believe or disbelieve for me; and as little as he can open or shut heaven or hell for me, so little can he drive me to faith or unbelief. Since, then, belief or unbelief is a matter of every one's conscience, and since this is no lessening of the secular power, the latter should be content and attend to its own affairs and permit men to believe one thing or another, as they are able and willing, and constrain no one by force. [8]
In 17th-century , discussed in his work, and identified them as being "life, liberty, and estate (or property)", and argued that such fundamental rights could not be surrendered in the social contract. These ideas were claimed as justification for the rebellion of the American colonies. As stated in his draft for the , "all men are born equally free," and hold "certain inherent natural rights, of which they cannot, by any compact, deprive or divest their posterity." Another 17th-century Englishman, (known as ), who came into conflict with both the monarchy of and the of the republic governed by , defined as being rights that every human being is born with, as opposed to rights bestowed by government or by human law. England philosopher John Locke natural rights George Mason Virginia Declaration of Rights [9] John Lilburne Freeborn John King Charles I military dictatorship Oliver Cromwell freeborn rights
The distinction between alienable and unalienable rights was introduced by in his (1755) based on the principle of the liberty of conscience. One could not in fact give up the capacity for private judgment (e.g., about religious questions) regardless of any external contracts or oaths to religious or secular authorities so that right is "unalienable." As Hutcheson wrote, "Thus no man can really change his sentiments, judgments, and inward affections, at the pleasure of another; nor can it tend to any good to make him profess what is contrary to his heart. The right of private judgment is therefore unalienable." Francis Hutcheson A System of Moral Philosophy Reformation [10]
In the German Enlightenment, gave a highly developed treatment of this inalienability argument. Like Hutcheson, Hegel based the theory of inalienable rights on the inalienability of those aspects of personhood that distinguish persons from things. A thing, like a piece of property, can in fact be transferred from one person to another. But the same would not apply to those aspects that make one a person, wrote Hegel: Hegel de facto
The right to what is in essence inalienable is imprescriptible, since the act whereby I take possession of my personality, of my substantive essence, and make myself a responsible being, capable of possessing rights and with a moral and religious life, takes away from these characteristics of mine just that externality which alone made them capable of passing into the possession of someone else. When I have thus annulled their externality, I cannot lose them through lapse of time or from any other reason drawn from my prior consent or willingness to alienate them. [11]
Thus in discussion of theory, "inalienable rights" were said to be those rights that could not be surrendered by citizens to the sovereign. Such rights were thought to be , independent of positive law. However, many social contract theorists reasoned that in the only the strongest could benefit from their rights. Thus people form an implicit , ceding their natural rights to the authority to protect them from abuse, and living henceforth under the legal rights of that authority. social contract natural rights natural state social contract
But many historical apologies for slavery and illiberal government were based on explicit or implicit voluntary contracts to alienate any "natural rights" to freedom and . The inalienability arguments of the Hutcheson and his predecessors provided the basis for the to argue not simply against involuntary slavery but against any explicit or implied contractual forms of slavery. Any contract that tried to legally alienate such a right would be inherently invalid. Similarly, the argument was used by the democratic movement to argue against any explicit or implied social contracts of subjection () by which a people would supposedly alienate their right of self-government to a sovereign as, for example, in by . According to , self-determination [12] de facto anti-slavery movement pactum subjectionis Leviathan Thomas Hobbes Ernst Cassirer
There is, at least, one right that cannot be ceded or abandoned: the right to personality...They charged the great logician [Hobbes] with a contradiction in terms. If a man could give up his personality he would cease being a moral being. ... There is no , no act of submission by which man can give up the state of free agent and enslave himself. For by such an act of renunciation he would give up that very character which constitutes his nature and essence: he would lose his humanity.pactum subjectionis [13]
These themes converged in the debate about American Independence. While Jefferson was writing the Declaration of Independence, in England sided with the Americans' claim "that Great Britain is attempting to rob them of that liberty to which every member of society and all civil communities have a natural and unalienable title." Price again based the argument on the inalienability of "that principle of spontaneity or self-determination which constitutes us agents or which gives us a command over our actions, rendering them properly ours, and not effects of the operation of any foreign cause. Any social contract or compact allegedly alienating these rights would be non-binding and void, wrote Price: Richard Price [14] de facto [15]
Neither can any state acquire such an authority over other states in virtue of any compacts or cessions. This is a case in which compacts are not binding. Civil liberty is, in this respect, on the same footing with religious liberty. As no people can lawfully surrender their religious liberty by giving up their right of judging for themselves in religion, or by allowing any human beings to prescribe to them what faith they shall embrace, or what mode of worship they shall practise, so neither can any civil societies lawfully surrender their civil liberty by giving up to any extraneous jurisdiction their power of legislating for themselves and disposing their property. [16]
Price raised a furor of opposition so in 1777 he wrote another tract that clarified his position and again restated the basis for the argument that the "liberty of men as agents is that power of self-determination which all agents, as such, possess." In , pulled together these themes and related them to the slavery debate:de facto [17] Intellectual Origins of American Radicalism Staughton Lynd
Then it turned out to make considerable difference whether one said slavery was wrong because every man has a natural right to the possession of his own body, or because every man has a natural right freely to determine his own destiny. The first kind of right was alienable: thus Locke neatly derived slavery from capture in war, whereby a man forfeited his labor to the conqueror who might lawfully have killed him; and thus Dred Scott was judged permanently to have given up his freedom. But the second kind of right, what Price called "that power of self-determination which all agents, as such, possess," was inalienable as long man remained man. Like the mind's quest for religious truth from which it was derived, self-determination was not a claim to ownership which might be both acquired and surrendered, but an inextricable aspect of the activity of being human. [18]
Meanwhile in America, "took his division of rights into alienable and unalienable from Hutcheson, who made the distinction popular and important", and in the 1776 , famously condensed this to: Thomas Jefferson [19] United States Declaration of Independence
"We hold these to be , that , that they are endowed by their with certain unalienable Rights..." truths self-evident all men are created equal Creator
In the nineteenth century, the movement to abolish slavery seized this passage as a statement of constitutional principle, although the U.S. constitution recognized and protected slavery. As a lawyer, future argued before the Supreme Court in the case of , who had been charged with violating the , that: Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase John Van Zandt Fugitive Slave Act
"The law of the Creator, which invests every human being with an inalienable title to freedom, cannot be repealed by any interior law which asserts that man is property."
[] edit Contemporary history
Many documents now echo the phrase used in the . The preamble to the 1948 asserts that rights are inalienable: "recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world." However, there is still much dispute over which "rights" are truly natural rights and which are not, and the concept of natural or inalienable rights is still controversial to some. United States Declaration of Independence Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Contemporary political philosophies continuing the tradition of natural rights include , and , and include amongst their canon the works of authors such as , , , and . A libertarian view of inalienable rights is laid out in Morris and Linda Tannehill's , which claims that a man has a right to ownership over his life and therefore also his property, because he has invested time (i.e. part of his life) in it and thereby made it an extension of his life. However, if he initiates force against and to the detriment of another man, he alienates himself from the right to that part of his life which is required to pay his debt: "Rights are inalienable, but only the possessor of a right can alienate himself from that right no one else can take a man's rights from him." liberal libertarianism anarcho-capitalism Objectivism Ludwig von Mises Friedrich Hayek Ayn Rand Murray Rothbard The Market for Liberty not [20]
[] edit Legal rights documents
The specific enumeration of legal rights accorded to people has historically differed greatly from one century to the next, and from one regime to the next, but nowadays is normally addressed by the constitutions of the respective nations. The following documents have each played important historical roles in establishing legal rights norms around the world.
The (1215; ) required the to renounce certain rights and respect certain legal procedures, and to accept that the will of the king could be bound by . Magna Carta England King of England law
The (1320; ) established the right of the people to choose a head of state (see ). Declaration of Arbroath Scotland Popular sovereignty
The (1689; England) declared that , as embodied by , possess certain civil and political rights. Bill of Rights Englishmen Parliament
The (1689; Scotland) was one of the key documents of . Claim of Right Scottish constitutional law
(1785; United States) Written by in 1779, the document asserted the right of man to form a personal relationship with God without interference by the state. Virginia Statute for Religious Freedom Thomas Jefferson
The (1789/1791; United States), the first ten amendments of the , was another influential document. United States Bill of Rights United States Constitution
The (1948) is an over-arching set of standards by which governments, organisations and individuals would measure their behaviour towards each other. The preamble declares that the "...recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of , and in the world..." Universal Declaration of Human Rights freedom justice peace