7 External links
[] edit Standard and non-standard dialects
A (also known as a or "") is a dialect that is supported by institutions. Such institutional support may include government recognition or designation; presentation as being the "correct" form of a language in schools; published grammars, dictionaries, and textbooks that set forth a "correct" spoken and written form; and an extensive formal literature that employs that dialect (prose, poetry, non-fiction, etc.). There may be multiple standard dialects associated with a single language. For example, Standard , Standard , Standard , Standard , and Standard may all be said to be standard dialects of the .standard dialectstandardized dialect standard language American English British English Indian English Australian English Philippine English English language
A , like a standard dialect, has a complete vocabulary, grammar, and syntax, but is not the beneficiary of institutional support. An example of a nonstandard English dialect is . The was designed by to compare different English dialects with each other. nonstandard dialect Southern English Dialect Test Joseph Wright
[] edit "Dialect" or "language"
There are no universally accepted criteria for distinguishing from , although a number of paradigms exist, which render sometimes contradictory results. The exact distinction is therefore a subjective one, dependent on the user's frame of reference.languagesdialects
are often called rather than : Language varieties dialectslanguages
solely because they are not (or not recognized as) , literary languages
because the speakers of the given language do not have a of their own, state
because they are not used in press or literature, or very little.
or because their language lacks . prestige
The term is used by some linguists instead of or when there is no need to commit oneself to any decision on the status with respect to this distinction.idiomlanguagedialect[] citation needed
define dialect as the specific form of a language used by a . In other words, the difference between language and dialect is the difference between the abstract or general and the concrete and particular. From this perspective, no one speaks a "language," everyone speaks a dialect of a language. Those who identify a particular dialect as the "" or "proper" version of a language are in fact using these terms to express a social distinction. Anthropological linguists speech community standard
Often, the standard language is close to the sociolect of the class. elite
In groups where prestige standards play less important roles, "dialect" may simply be used to refer to subtle regional variations in linguistic practices that are considered mutually intelligible, playing an important role to place strangers, carrying the message of where a stranger originates (which quarter or district in a town, which village in a rural setting, or which province of a country); thus there are many apparent "dialects" of , for example, by which the linguist simply means that there are many subtle variations among speakers who largely understand each other and recognize that they are each speaking "the same way" in a general sense. Slavey
Modern-day linguists know that the of language is not solely determined by linguistic criteria, but it is also the result of a historical and political development. came to be a written language, and therefore it is recognized as a language, even though it is very close to the Lombardic alpine dialects. An opposite example is the case of , whose variations such as and are often considered dialects and not languages, despite their mutual unintelligibility, because they share a common literary standard and common body of literature. status Romansh Chinese Mandarin Cantonese [] citation needed
[] edit "A language is a dialect with an army and navy"
Main article: A language is a dialect with an army and navy
The linguist published the expression, "A shprakh iz a dialekt mit an armey un flot" ("з з з з з з и ", "A language is a dialect with an army and navy"; in 25.1, 1945, p. 13). The origin of this statement is, however, uncertain  Weinreich explicitly says that he did not coin it. It illustrates the fact that the political status of the speakers of a variety influences its perceived status as language or dialect. Most governments establish a standard variety of their language (or languages) to be taught in schools and used in official documents, courts and so on; often it is also promoted for use in the media. Yiddish Max Weinreich Yivo-bleter
[] edit Political factors
Depending on political realities and ideologies, the classification of speech varieties as dialects or languages and their relationship to other varieties of speech can be controversial and the verdicts inconsistent. and illustrate the point. English and Serbo-Croatian each have two major variants ( and , and and , respectively), along with numerous lesser varieties. For political reasons, analyzing these varieties as "languages" or "dialects" yields inconsistent results: British and American English, spoken by close political and military allies, are almost universally regarded as dialects of a single language, whereas the standard languages of and , which differ from each other to a similar extent as the dialects of English, are being treated by many linguists from the region as distinct languages, largely because the two countries oscillate from being brotherly to being bitter enemies. (The article deals with this topic much more fully.) English Serbo-Croatian British American English Serbian Croatian Serbia Croatia Serbo-Croatian language
Similar examples abound. , although mutually intelligible with , certain dialects of Serbian and to a lesser extent the rest of the is considered by Bulgarian linguists to be a Bulgarian dialect, in contrast with the contemporary international view, and the view in the which regards it as a language in its own right. Nevertheless, before the establishment of a literary standard of in 1944, in most sources in and out of Bulgaria before the Second World War, the southern Slavonic dialect continuum covering the area of today's Republic of Macedonia were referred to as Bulgarian dialects. Macedonian Bulgarian South Slavic dialect continuum Republic of Macedonia Macedonian
In the 19th Century, the Government of claimed that was merely a dialect of and not a language in its own right. Since Soviet times, when Ukrainians were recognised as a separate nationality deserving of its own Soviet Republic, such linguistic-political claims had disappeared from circulation. Tsarist Russia Ukrainian Russian
In , the right-wing , a fiercely nationalistic (mainly Christian) political party which opposes the country's ties to the world, is agitating for to be recognized as a distinct language from and not merely a dialect, and has even advocated replacing the with a revival of the ancient - which missed a number of characters to write typical Arabic phonemes present in Lebanese, and lost by Phoenician (and Hebrew) in the second millenium BC. Lebanon Guardians of the Cedars Arab "Lebanese" Arabic Arabic alphabet Phoenician alphabet
This is, however, very much a minority position - in Lebanon itself as in the Arab World as a whole. The are considerably different from each other - especially those spoken in () from those of the (the in the broad definition including and ) - and had there been the political will in the different Arab countries to cut themselves off from each other, the case could have been made to declare these varieties as separate languages. However, in adherence to the ideas of , the Arab countries prefer to give preference to the which is common to all of them, conduct much of their political, cultural and religious life in it, and refrain from declaring each country's specific variety to be a separate language. Varieties of Arabic North Africa Maghreb Middle East Mashriq Egypt Sudan Arab Nationalism Literary Arabic
Interestingly, such moves may even appear at a local, rather than a federal level. The US state of declared "American" to be the state's in 1923, although linguists and politicians throughout much of the rest of the country considered American simply to be a dialect. Illinois official language [3]
There have been cases of a variety of speech being deliberately altered to serve political purposes. One example is . In 1996, the Moldovan parliament, citing fears of "Romanian expansionism," rejected a proposal from to change the name of the language to Romanian, and in 2003 a was published, purporting to show that the two countries speak different languages. Linguists of the reacted by declaring that all the Moldovan words were also Romanian words; while in Moldova, the head of the , , described the dictionary as a politically motivated "absurdity". Moldovan President Mircea Snegur Moldovan-Romanian dictionary Romanian Academy Academy of Sciences of Moldova Ion Brbuc
In contrast, of are usually referred to as dialects of one Chinese language, to promote national unity. . spoken languages Han Chinese The article "" has more details Identification of the varieties of Chinese
In the Philippines, the declared all the indigenous languages in the Philippines dialects despite the great differences between them, as well as the existence of significant bodies of literature in each of the major "dialects" and daily newspapers in some. Komisyon sa Wikang Filipino (Commission on the Filipino Language) [] citation needed
The significance of the political factors in any attempt at answering the question "what is a language?" is great enough to cast doubt on whether any strictly linguistic definition, without a socio-cultural approach, is possible. This is illustrated by the frequency with which the army-navy aphorism discussed in the preceding section is cited.
[] edit Historical linguistics
Many view any speech form as a dialect of the older medium of communication from which it developed. This point of view sees the modern as dialects of , modern as a dialect of Ancient Greek, as a dialect of English, and as dialects of . This paradigm is not entirely problem-free. It sees genetic relationships as paramount; the "dialects" of a "language" (which itself may be a "dialect" of a yet older tongue) may or may not be mutually intelligible. Moreover, a parent language may spawn several "dialects" which themselves subdivide any number of times, with some "branches" of the tree changing more rapidly than others. This can give rise to the situation where two dialects (defined according to this paradigm) with a somewhat distant genetic relationship are mutually more readily comprehensible than more closely related dialects. This pattern is clearly present among the modern Romance tongues, with and having a high degree of mutual comprehensibility, which neither language shares with , despite both languages being closer to French than to each other: French has undergone more rapid change than have Spanish and Italian. historical linguists [] citation needed Romance languages Latin Greek Tok Pisin Scandinavian languages Old Norse Italian Spanish French genetically[] citation needed
[] edit Interlinguistics
One language, , was so that the languages of Western civilization would act as its dialects. Drawing from such concepts as the and , linguists developed a theory that the modern Western languages were actually dialects of a hidden or latent language. Researchers at the extracted words and affixes that they considered to be part of Interlingua's vocabulary. In theory, speakers of the Western languages would understand written or spoken Interlingua immediately, without prior study, since their own languages were its dialects. This has often turned out to be true, especially, but not solely, for speakers of the Romance languages and educated speakers of English. Interlingua has also been found to assist in the learning of other languages. In one study, Swedish high school students learning Interlingua were able to translate passages from Spanish, Portuguese, and Italian that students of those languages found too difficult to understand. It should be noted, however, that the vocabulary of Interlingua extends beyond the Western language families. Interlingua developed [4] international scientific vocabulary Standard Average European International Auxiliary Language Association [5] [4] [6] [5]
[] edit Concepts in dialectology