Efficacy against fleas
Fleas are one of the main target pests for which selamectin is indicated. The life cycle of the cat flea (Ctenocephalides felis felis) has been researched extensively and under common environmental conditions is completed in 3-5weeks (4). Once attached to a host, newly emerged adult fleas begin feeding within a few minutes. Fleas mate after feeding and egg production begins within 24-48 h of the first blood meal. Eggs are laid on the host, but fall out of the hairy coat (pellage), with approximately 70 % being dislodged within 8 h, and usually accumulate in areas where pets sleep or rest (4).  Hatching occurs in 1-6 days and larvae develop in habitats where moderate temperatures and high relative humidity occur. The newly hatched larvae are free- living, feeding on adult flea fecal blood and on organic debris and tend to move down (because of positive geotaxis and negative phototaxis) between carpet fibres, organic materials or in the soil. The larva produces a silk cocoon inside which a pupa develops and the later molts to the adult stage. The fully developed adult stage can survive in the cocoon up to five months, and during this time it is extremely difficult to kill the flea with insecticides because they do not penetrate into the base of the carpet or the debris, rather than being due to any protective effect of the cocoon (5).  Only a very small portion ( about 5%) of the flea population lives and feeds on animals , the remaining portion (95%) comprising eggs , larvae and pupae are spread around the indoor habitat (6), while not all insecticides are efficacious on the preimaginal stages.
The cat flea, , is widespread in Israel and although mainly associated with the cat this arthropod has a low host specificity and can feed on a large range of hosts including humans. Fleas have a direct effect on the host and produce allergic conditions and anemia. Allergic dermatitis is a hypersensitive state produced by the inoculation of saliva during feeding and is characterized by intense pruritus, resulting in licking, chewing and scratching. The allergic response is characterized by an immediate (10-15 min.) and delayed response (24-48 h.) following repeated exposure to flea bites (7). Since fleas are hematophagous insects they produce iron deficiency anemia particularly in young animals while heavy infestations can lead to death of the host (8,9). Fleas are vectors of Rickettsiae (murine typhus), bacteria (Yersinia), nematodes () and cestodes (). is very common among dogs in Israel and is often found in cats. The eggs of this cestode are eaten by the flea larva and an oncosphere emerges from each egg in the intestine of the larval flea and remains in the insect tissues until the latter develops into an adult flea where it transforms to cysticercoid. Dogs and cats infect themselves by eating infected fleas. Dogs and cats chew fleas when grooming and set free cysticercoid on their coat, around the mouth and on their tongue. Humans, especially children, may become infected accidentally by swallowing cysticercoids which develop in their intestines to a medium sized (25-40 cm.) tapeworm, and motile proglottids, the size of a rice grain, are passed in the stool.C. felis felisDipetalonemaDipyllidium and HymenolepisDipylidium caninum
Studies for controlling were conducted to evaluate: 1) adulticidal efficacy (killing adult fleas); 2) adulticidal efficacy following bathing of pets ; 3) ovicidal and larvicidal efficacy (resulting in prevention of flea infestation) and 4) effect of ebris(dander, hair, scales and flea feces) from animals treated with selamectin on the viability of flea eggs, larvae and adults (1).C.felis
Selamectin provided long-term efficacy against fleas for a period of at least 28 days after topical application (10). Dosages of 3,6,or 9 mg/kg were applied to a single spot at the base of the neck in front of the scapulae. Dogs and cats were infested with 100 (50 female and 50 male) viable on days 4,11,18, and 27 after the application of selamectin. The inert formulation ingredients (vehicle) was used as the control. Seventy-two hours after each infestation (days 7,14, 21 and 30), a comb count to determine the number of viable fleas present on each animal was performed. Up to day 21 the three dosages were so highly effective that it was not possible to discriminate among them. On day 30, the 6 and 9 mg dosages killed almost all fleas and were not different, which indicated that the appropriate dosage of selamectin against adult fleas on dogs and cats for a period of at least 27-30 days was 6 mg/kg (11).C. felis
The efficacy of 6 mg/kg dose was evaluated in eight controlled studies with dogs and cats against and . Groups of 8-12 dogs or cats were allocated randomly for each study. In dogs, a 99.2% and 91.8% efficacy was obtained against C. felis and C. canis respectively, at the day 30 count. Groups of 12 dogs that received a single topical dose of 6 mg/kg selamectin were immersed in water 2 h post application or bathed with shampoo at 2, 6, or 24 h post application of the drug and before infestation with . The reduction of fleas on day 30 after the application of selamectin ranged from 99.7% to 100%. Similar experiments with C. felis on cats showed 98.8% of reduction for unbathed cats, and 97.1 % to 99.4 % for bathed cats immersed in water after application of selamectin (12).C. felisC.canisC. felis
The speed of kill efficacy of selamectin against adult fleas (adulticidal effect) was evaluated with 44 dogs and 44 cats including control animals. Each animal was infested with 100 unfed viable adult and flea comb counts were performed every 12 hours for 48 h (a total of 4 counts) after treatment application. The percentage of reduction for cats was 98.9 % after 24 h and for dogs 99.8 % after 36 h. Both host species were completely free of fleas 48 h after application of selamectin (13).C. felis
For egg hatch and larval development studies dogs and cats were housed in cages designed for the collection of flea eggs. Each animal was experimentally infested with 600 unfed viable adult on the day of application of selamectin and on days 4,11,18, and 27 after the application. Flea eggs were collected 72 h after each infestation over a period of 3 h after which any remaining eggs or fleas were removed by combing. Usually adult fleas begin feeding a few minutes after infesting a new host, and mating females begin to produce eggs 24-48 h following their first blood meal. It follows that selamectin with an about 98% adulticidal efficacy 24-36 h after application, may provide only a short period over which flea eggs can be produced and shed into the environment. In fact an approximate 98% reduction in eggs collected from flea-infested dogs treated with selamectin was observed. A reduction of 92.2 % and 95.6 % reduction in hatched eggs and larvae occurred in fleas from selamectin-treated cats (13).C. felis
At the same time that adult female fleas lay eggs, they produce copious amount of feces containing a high proportion of virtually undigested blood on which larvae can feed. Debris, including flea feces, falling from selamectin-treated dogs was also shown to have high ovicidal and larvicidal activity because of their content of active selamectin, further reducing the possibility of any flea eggs or larvae already in the environment of completing their life cycle. Most debris and flea eggs tend to fall from animals where they stay longer, such as favorite resting places, both indoor and outside. Therefore, control via exposure to debris is targeted at areas more likely to have high pre-adult flea populations (13). The efficacy of selamectin in treatment and prevention of was evaluated in a simulated home environment (5). Cats were housed in carpeted rooms and dogs were housed in accommodation with raised, carpeted sleeping areas. Each of the 48 cats and 44 dogs allocated for the experiment was infested with 100 fleas, 28 and 21 days before treatment with selamectin in order to establish an environment of flea infestation. Selamectin was applicated to the animals in the medicated groups three times at 30 days apart and six comb counts were performed every 15 days starting from day 14 after the first treatment. By day 90 of the experiment the mean number of fleas for each dog was 366.9 in the controls versus 0.9 in the treated (99.8 % reduction) and for each cat, 435.7 versus 3.0 (99.3% reduction). In another environmental exposure experiment dogs and cats were infested one and 7 days after treatment, a second treatment being administered 30 days later. The percentage of reduction of flea infestation was 99.8% for dogs and 100% for cats (5). In a third study (14), dogs and cats were given five treatments at 30 days intervals and infested with fleas 28 and 21 days before treatment and then at weekly intervals. In the first treatment against the pre-established infestation selamectin achieved over 97 % reduction and an efficacy of 99.9% was maintained for the duration of the study. In comparative studies selamectin was as effective as fipronil in treating cats and as effective as fipronil and imidacloprid in treating dogs housed for three months in a flea-infested environment (15,16) or in controlled experiments (17). These results show that monthly topical administration of selamectin is effective against flea infestation of dogs and cats housed in heavily flea-infested environments and also prevented the establishment of an environmental infestation, even when fleas are introduced into conditions that are highly suited for their development.C. felis
Multi-center field studies were conducted in veterinary clinics in Europe ( UK, France, Germany and Italy ) and the USA. Dogs and cats infested with fleas presented at the clinics were treated with commercial selamectin formulation at presentation and subsequently after 30 and 60 days. Flea counts and clinical observations were made on days 14,30,60 and 90. The animals designated as the control group were treated with a fention (cholinesterase inhibitor organophosphorus insecticide) preparation accompanied in some of the cases with the use of an environmental spray containing insect growth regulator and pyrethroid insecticide. An environmental spray was not used with selamectin. Treatment of control animals with inactive ingredient was not applicable in the veterinary field study because of ethical considerations. Cats in the USA experiment were treated topically with pyrethroids. Dogs and cats treated with selamectin showed a reduction of infestation between 90.7% and 99.8% for the whole period of observation. Slightly lower percentages of reduction were obtained with fention combined with pyrethrins and insect growth regulator environment treatment (18). In pyrethrin-treated cats fleas were reduced by 66.4% to 81.3% (19). In the USA, supplementary clinical criteria such as pruritus, erythema, scaling, alopecia, papules and dermatitis were used to evaluate the beneficial results of selamectin treatment. A significant proportion of flea-infested animals develop hypersensitivity to flea allergens resulting in dermatitis. This condition is difficult to treat, because exposure to small numbers of fleas may provoke a significant reaction. The percentage of dogs and cats showing these dermatological conditions decreased significantly in selamectin treated animal compared to the animals treated with other preparations. However a total cure of all dermatological manifestations could not be achieved during the experimental observation period (19).
 