 
There are two main listing types as follows:
1 primary county for 1 year. A guaranteed listing in the upper section of your city and county. You will always come in near the top of a search for a property appraiser in your area.Priority Listing
1 primary county for 1 year. The top property appraiser spot in your county and city, every time. The header listing is always the first listing shown. The "Header" spot is the premium location in the website which receives the most activity. Some search engines report their top listings, first on the list, get 2.5 times more click throughs than the second listing below.Header Listing
The Header Listing also receives the cross links into our other 3 national directories at , & . When a mortgage lender, real estate agent or home inspector is searched in one of the websites listed above an appraiser with the Header Listing from that same county will be listed at the top of the search results page under the heading "Need an appraisal?" Cross linking into other real estate related national directories is unique to and provides added Internet exposure to our members. http://www.MortgageLinks.org http://www.RealtyLinks.org http://www.InspectorLinks.com Feeappraiser.com
There is only one residential and one commercial Header listing per county. Once the Header listing has been taken in your county, it might not be available again for years. If you don't get the Header listing your competition will.
Additional counties. Feel free to sign up for as many counties as you cover. There is a nominal fee for additional counties depending on the tier.Other Listing Options:
For your convenience, we accept Visa, Mastercard, American Express and checks. All fees are paid upfront for the year. All orders are subject to availability and confirmation of the real estate appraiser license. Proceed with the online order form or for check payments fill in form, print and send to:Payment Options:
1468 Gustavo St # F, El Cajon, CA 92019
Order online or by phone at 1 (888) 407-7557.
 
Your complete real estate appraisal online database resource
1468 Gustavo St #F, El Cajon CA 92019 Phone 1(888) 407-7557 · FAX 1(866) 633-3834 Real Estate Appraisers and ConsultingSan Diego Appraisal Company, Inc.
Find a Lender! MortgageLinks.org