Medic8® Family Health Guide : Bones and Joints
MEDIC8 HEALTH GUIDE: BONES & JOINTS
This section covers information about back pain, joint replacements and other common ailments which affect the bones and joints.
A sprained ankle is a common sports injury. This article outlines the recommended treatment, recovery, and the signs of a more serious injury. ANKLE INJURIES
This is an arthritic condition of the spine. This article provides a detailed overview of its possible effects and advice on treatment. ANKYLOSING SPONDYLITIS
Backache is a very common symptom. This article outlines the usual course, investigations and treatment options. BACK INJURIES
This article outlines the measurement of bone density and some treatments that are available. BONE DENSITOMETRY
A good intake of calcium is important for maintaining healthy bones. This article provides an in depth look at how to prevent osteoporosis and profiles the calcium content of a variety of foods. BONE HEALTH
Calf muscle injuries are one of the most common sports injuries. This article provides an overview of the injury, the recommended treatment, and how it can be prevented. CALF MUSCLE INJURIES
This syndrome is often the result of repetitive strain injury. This article looks at the causes, treatment and surgical options. CARPAL TUNNEL SYNDROME
Golfer's elbow is a common and troublesome condition. This article outlines the possible causes and some treatment options. GOLFER'S ELBOW
Gout is a painful condition characterised by inflammation of a joint. This article provides an in depth look at the problem and how it can be prevented. GOUT
Whether to take HRT is a difficult decision for many women. This article examines some of the controversies surrounding the issue. HORMONE REPLACEMENT THERAPY
Hip and knee joints can become stiff and painful due to arthritis. This article looks at the best candidates for joint replacement and how the operation is performed. JOINT REPLACEMENT SURGERY
OOS is a common problem in the workforce. This article looks at how to limit work-related stress and injuries. OCCUPATIONAL OVERUSE SYNDROME (OOS)
This is a knee disorder which may occur between childhood and adolescence. This article looks at the treatment and prognosis of the condition. OSGOOD-SCHLATTER SYNDROME
Osteoporosis is a common problem for women following menopause, but it can also affect men. This article discusses the symptoms and treatment of the condition. OSTEOPOROSIS
The shoulder area is prone to a number of troublesome and painful conditions,which this article describes in depth. PAINFUL SHOULDER CONDITIONS
Pilates classes are now being adopted by world class athletes and international rugby players. This article profiles the importance of Pilates and the key principles of the exercises. PILATES
Polymyalgia mainly affects older people. This article looks at the symptoms and treatment of the condition. POLYMYALGIA RHEUMATICA
This in depth article outlines the causes and symptoms of sciatica, and when surgery should be considered. SCIATICA AND DISC PROLAPSE
This is a general term for pain in the lower legs of athletes. The condition may be due to different conditions including stress fracture, poor running mechanics and compartment syndrome. SHIN SPLINTS
Stress fractures often go undiagnosed and are a common problem in athletes. This article looks at common sites for stress fractures and how they can be prevented. STRESS FRACTURES
SLE is a rare autoimmune disorder which can cause inflammation of the skin and organs in the body. This article discusses the disease, common symptoms and what can be done to help manage the condition. SYSTEMIC LUPUS ERYTHEMATOSUS (SLE)
This is a common and troublesome condition. This article outlines the possible causes and some treatment options. TENNIS ELBOW