Dog house heaters keeps pets warm indoors or out.FREE cover included with purchase
Lectro-kennel Dog House Heaters
Dog house heaters keeps pets warm indoors or out.FREE cover included with purchase
Breeders, pet owners and veterinarians have been using K&H Original Lectro-Kennel to warm pets for more than 40 years. This new sleek design is now more comfortable and durable than ever! The Lectro-Kennel dog house heaters are a simple, affordable way to keep your pet comfortable. Constructed of rugged ABS plastic with a steel wrapped cord, the Lectro-Kennel can lie flat on the dog house floor or can be attached to the wall.
Heating pads which are designed for humans can get too hot and cause blistering and hair loss in animals. An internal thermostat keeps the temperature of the Lectro-Kennel pad at a desirable and pet-safe 100 degrees when in use. Like snuggling with another dog.
Original Lectro-Kennelheating pads also come with a free removable, washable faux-lambskin cover designed for use with the heat pad while still allowing heat to radiate properly.
Lectro-Kennel heating pads draw no more power than a light bulb.
No maintenance, no moving parts
Completely safe for dogs, cats and small animals.
Ideal for dog houses, unheated garages and basements.
Spring, steel coil-wrapped cord helps prevent chewing. Cord is UL approved.
Durable, sanitary, ABS plastic construction with rounded corners.
Use indoors or outdoors, in kennels, whelping areas or post surgical situations.
Heating element molded into high-density durable polyethylene allowing it to be washed.
Internal thermostat keeps the temperature at a desirable 100°.
Optional temperature control rheostat for heat adjustment. (Purchase separately below)
Lectro-Kennel cover (included) adds comfort.
Limited one-year manufacturer warranty.
Cover is made from fleece-like material, preshrunk and washable. Cover is breathable, won't warp pad.
Note: For use in confined space, order a size which is approximately half the space size so that your pet an opportunity to get off of the heated surface if it desires.
RHEOSTAT CONTROL UNIT (EK&TB)
Provides a convenient and reliable fingertip selection on the exact warmth your pet needs in any environment or climate. Provides a full-range, variable heat control. This lets you select and adjust the heat intensity from off to full temperature heat quickly and easily. (sold separately below)
Choose the Heater for the shape of the dog house & Rheostat Configuration
For square houses or open arrangements
Classic Dog House Heater Pad NO Built-in Rheostat
Purchase Below
For square houses or open arrangements
Deluxe Heater Pad WITH Built-In Rheostat