Properties involved in legal challenges
Extensive review of appraisals for attorneys and lenders
Working with law firms providing consultation services
Expert witness testimony for courts in Washington and Colorado
High quality uncompromising real estate appraisal services
Our chief real estate appraiser:
Has the SRA designation from The Appraisal Institute   (Fewer than 1% of all appraisers nationwide have this designation)
Is on the approved list with more than 75 different lenders
Provides University of Washington law students education concerning expert witness testimony
Creates and provides education to mortgage companies, appraisers, agents and colleges
Provides appraisal reviews for the State, nationwide lenders and attorneys
Testifies before the Senate and House of Representatives on appraisa lissues
Was a co-author of Washington's "Mortgage Brokers Practices Act"
Richard was quoted by See "Appraisers: Message from a fee appraiser" Washington State Department of Liscensing .
The Appraisers at American Home Appraisals are among the best in the area. If you need high quality appraisals or the services of experienced and professionals... this is the firm to turn to.tested
Lenders who care...
      ... and attorney's who need the best, call:
American Home Appraisals.
We have a reputation for great service.
A Quality Real Estate Appraisal FirmSince 1988 7433 Southeast 27th Street Mercer Island, WA 98040 Office 206-236-3037 Fax 206-236-0246
Service Areas: State of Washington
  - Including the cities of:  Seattle, Auburn, Algona, Bellevue, Black Diamond, Bothell, Burien, Issaquah, Kent, Kirkland, Maple Valley, Mercer Island, New Castle, North Bend,  Redmond, Renton, Sea-Tac, Sammamish, Snoqualmie, WoodinvilleKing County
- Including the cities of:  Everett, Bothell, Edmonds, Lake Stevens, Lynwood, Marysville, Mill Creek, Monroe, Mount Lake Terrace, Mukilteo, Stanwood, Vashon Island,  Woodway.Snohomish County
- Including the cites of: Tacoma, Buckley, Eatonville, Enumclaw, Fife, Fort Lewis, Gig Harbor, Milton, Puyallup, Roy, Ruston, Steilacoom, Spanaway, University Place.Pierce County
Check status of real estate appraisal license - click here
A license is considered to be the bare requirement for appraisers. A state license is no guarantee that the appraiser has sufficient knowledge to appraise more than the smallest, most basic home. The State of Washington has three levels of real estate appraisal license. The minimum level is suitable only for appraising simple homes under $250,000. However, the appraisers at American Home Appraisals have the level of residential license available. We are approved, by the State, to provide real estate appraisal services on any and all residential properties, anywhere - regardless of the value and complexity. Do you really want the cheapest appraisal or do you want the best? Are you willing to gamble saving $50.00 in exchange for underestimating the value of your home by $50,000? In this business, you usually get what you pay for. We strongly suggest finding the best appraiser, the one that's willing to go the extra mile in determing the accurate value for your property. In appraising, there's true value in quality.Not all real estate appraisers are the same!
minimumhighest
American Home Appraisals - when you need a good real estate appraisal
1997-2004 American Home Appraisals, LLC - All rights reserved.
 