Book early for the peak season and holidays.
Make sure that your reservation is confirmed.
Advertise Here
The best Inns and Guest Houses in Rincon.
Click any image for more information.
 
is the ultimate Rincon beach experience. Roll out of bed and hit the waves! Enjoy the decks and terraces that offer stunning seascapes. Stroll the sandy beaches. Enjoy a delicious lunch or dinner, right by the sea. Later, party at the Tamboo Beach Bar to the sounds of the best island music and reggae.Beside the Pointe
 
 
Blue Boy Innis a elegant B & B, a short walk from the best beaches in the Caribbean. Located in beautiful Rincon, Puerto Rico, well-known for surfing, diving and spectacular sunsets, Blue Boy Inn offers wonderful Caribbean accommodations with a traditional European-style bed and breakfast service. Your experience at Blue Boy Inn will be more than a simple stay with a loved one, it will be an  intimate, romantic experience that you will always remember.
 
 
is located in the heart of Rincon, Puerto Rico right across the street from Sandy Beach. Our goal at Casa Verde is to provide you with excellent accommodations, service and information guaranteeing your enjoyment while visiting Rincon, Puerto Rico.Casa Verde Guest House
 
 
offers an oceanfront vacation, in front of of Puerto Rico's best swimming and snorkeling beach.Coconut Palms From our huge oceanside verandah, you can view the best sunsets in Rincon. Coconut Palms is a great place to host weddings, corporate team-building seminars, and large parties.
 
 
is nestled in the hills of Ensenada with breathtaking views of the Caribbean Sea. Allow us your hosts Jethro & Ruth Wickenden to introduce you to a blend of Caribbean paradise mixed with old English charm, with first class surf breaks, world class diving and stunning beaches only minutes away.La Rosa Inglesa Bed & Breakfast
 
 
LemontreeOceanfront Cottagesare all directly oceanfront and ideally situated as your base for your Puerto Rican holiday. The laid back and relaxed tropical lifestyle and atmosphere enables you to relax your body, renew your spirit and reawaken your senses. Swim, snorkel or watch the gentle waves, as pelicans dive for fish along the Lemontree's ocean coast. The large covered private ocean side decks tempt you to live outside, while the newly-renovated interiors offer eclectic art, paperback libraries and all the modern comforts of home.
 
 
This Small Inn offers the perfect setting for an intimate getaway at one of the most beautiful beaches in Puerto Rico. Swim in the warm ocean waters while pelicans fly over the horizon. Take pleasure in the delightful atmosphere of our private garden while enjoying the Caribbean Breeze and Sun by our swimming pool.
is Rincon's newest location to relax and enjoy the beauty and spectacular sunsets of Corcega Beach.The Pineapple Inn
 
 
offers rooms at economic prices. Rooms are equipped with queen size beds, air conditioning, cable TV. Only 3 blocks from the beach and within walking distance to many restaurants, bars, grocery stores and more. If your traveling on a budget, we are the place for you.Rincon Inn
 
 
offers modern minimalist suites with wood floors and marble baths. A rooftop terrace offers scenic views of Rincon's beaches and is the perfect place to enjoy a glass of wine while watching the night sky. The four suites accommodate up to sixteen guests, making it perfect for groups traveling together.Suites at 413
 
 
Surf787is the perfect destination for families or a large group. We offer 6 guest rooms, which accommodate up to 14 people and your stay includes breakfast. You can rent a room, or the entire Villa. We offer a swimming pool, beautiful ocean views, plenty of parking and tranquility. Our game room has ping pong, pool table, darts, board games and work-out equipment.Guest Villa
 
 
offers tropical elegance at water's edge of the most fabulous beach in Puerto Rico. Our classic beachfront bed & breakfast accommodations offer comfort and elegance in a casual setting. We offer a variety of rooms and apartments. Each unit was designed to provide awesome beach views and intimate settings. Our rooms and suites provide the old-world charm of Rincon, in a private setting, with your own swimming pool and tropical garden. magazine named Tres Sirenas Beach Inn one of the 27 Affordable Beach Resorts in the world.Tres Sirenas Beach InnTravel & Leisure
 
 
offers well-appointed rooms, suites and aparments overlooking the Rincon Lighthouse, and Desecheo Island, as well as the best surf breaks, offering the best views in Rincon.Vista Vacation Resort
Return to Main Lodging Page,
See Rincon past & present. Visit our Sights page.
 