  close
Product Detail:
Animals living in and out of the water face their greatest challenge in the crippling polar winters. Breathtaking, rare footage shows how animals survive in these hostile environments.
 
Winner of Four Emmy® Awards
- The Wall Street Journal"If there were a Nobel Prize for wildlife filmmaking, these producers would get it."
Five years in the making, with a budget of over $10 million, Blue Planet: Seas of Life is the most comprehensive series of the Earth's oceans to date. Plunge into the mysterious deep with eight, full-length episodes from the highly acclaimed series. Join Pierce Brosnan and Sir David Attenborough as they lead an unprecedented exploration of the ocean, exposing stories of survival against the odds and revealing new species, habitats and behaviors never before caught on camera.
Features:
Eight episodes and bonus material on 5 DVDs
Newly presented in Dolby 5.1 Surround Sound and 16:9 Letterbox
Frozen Seas, Coral Seas, Open Ocean, The Deep – Narrated by Pierce Brosnan
Tidal Seas, Coasts, Seasonal Seas, Ocean World – Narrated by David Attenborough
Bonus material includes new interviews with filmmakers and scientists
Frozen Seas
A coral reef is one of the most stunning sights on earth; a riot of color, teeming with fish. But this seeming tropical paradise is a Darwinian battleground where every species is locked in a daily life and death struggle, including the coral itself.Coral Seas
Venture into the largest section of open ocean in the world, where endless blue stretches in every direction. This blue wilderness can seem like an empty desert, but here the ocean's fiercest, fastest and most ruthless predators stalk their prey over immense distances.Open Ocean
Two-thirds of the earth is covered in water, but we've only explored about one percent of the ocean floor. With the help of space-age submersibles, take a spectacular journey to previously unreachable depths.The Deep
Watch as the tidal seas explode with life – thanks to the ever-present tug of the moon's gravity – and learn why tidal marshes are one of the most ecologically productive parts of the world.Tidal Seas
The boundary between land and sea serves as a demarcation line between the beach-loving creatures that live onshore and the hungry predators that wait just beneath the surface of the water.Coasts
Shafts of sunlight radiate through the ocean's "ceiling" and provide energy for the myriad creatures that live in the temperate sea, the richest of all underwater habitats.Seasonal Seas
The oceans are an integral part of the Earth's life cycle, influencing weather systems and supporting an enormous range of life. Explore the sheer scale, power and complexity of the mysterious oceans that govern our blue planet.Ocean World
Interviews with the filmmakers and scientists, including, Doug Allan, Rick Rosenthal, Dr. Martha Holmes, and Mike deGruyBonus Feature