Topography
The interaction of climate and is generally broken down from the of a larger area (For example, the region of ), down to the of a smaller subsection of that region (such as the village of ) and even to the individual of a particular vineyard or row or (like the vineyard of ). The element of soil relates both to the composition and the intrinsic nature of the , such as fertility, drainage and ability to retain heat. Topography refers to the natural landscape features like , and , which affect how the climate interacts with the region, and includes elements of and of the vineyard location.terroir macroclimate C te de Nuits Burgundy mesoclimate Vosne-Roman e microclimate grapevines Grand Cru La Grande Rue vineyard soils mountains valleys bodies of water aspect altitude [1]
[] edit Human controlled elements
The definition of can be expanded to include elements that are controlled or influenced by human decisions. This can include the decision of which grape variety to plant, though whether or not that grape variety will produce quality wine is an innate element of that may be beyond human influence. Some thrive better in certain areas than they do in others. The winemaking decision of using wild or ambient in instead of cultured or laboratory produced yeast can be a reflection of . The use of is a controversial element since some will advocate that its use is beneficial in bringing out the natural characteristics while others will argue that its use can mask the influences of the .terroirterroir grape varieties yeast fermentation terroir oak terroirterroir [1]
[] edit Influences of viticulture & winemaking
Many decisions during the and process can either downplay or enhance the expression of in the wine. These include decisions about , and selecting time of . At the winery the use of , cultured or ambient yeast, length of and time in contact with , temperature during as well as processes like , , with fining agents, and all have the potential to either downplay or emphasize some aspect derived from the . Winemakers can work between the extremes of producing wine that is -driven and focused on purely expressing the unique aspects of a region or winemaking that is done without any consideration given to . Furthermore, it is possible to take into consideration certain aspects like climate and soil type when making decisions such as which grape variety to plant with the goal of simply trying to make "good wine" rather than necessarily -driven wine. growing winemaking terroir pruning irrigation harvest oak maceration lees fermentation micro-oxygenation chaptalization clarification reverse osmosis terroirterroirterroirterroirterroirterroir [1]
The importance of these influences depends on the culture of a particular wine region. In France, particularly Burgundy, there is the belief that the role of winemaker is to bring out the expression of a wine's . The French word for winemaker, is more aptly translated to "wine-grower" rather than wine. The belief that the is the dominant influence in the wine is the basis behind French emphasizing the region, vineyard or AOC more prominently on the label rather than the grape and often more prominently than the producer.terroir vigneron makerterroir wine label varietal [4]
[] edit Appellation systems
The concept of means that wines from a particular region are unique, incapable of being reproduced outside that area, even if the grape variety and winemaking techniques are painstakingly duplicated. Winemakers in Burgundy do not believe that they are producing that happens to be grown in Burgundy, but that they are producing unique that happen to be made from Pinot noir. Appellation systems, such as the French AOC systems, have developed around the concepts of "uniques wines from a unique area". These systems have also developed into across the so that, for example, winemakers from outside a region like can not produce a wine and call it a . While the wine maybe made from the same of Sangiovese, in the same soil composition as what is found in the Chianti region with winemakers imitating the Tuscan method of production, there is a base assumption that the two wines will be intrinsically different due to the unreplicable elements of . The names of these European wine regions are protected so that wines from different regions and different are not being confused with wines from that particular region-i.e. A or "chianti". In the there is some confusion over the use of names like and but in recent years there has been more effort by the American wine industry to recognize the unique association of place names with the wines produced from those place, such as the 2005 agreement. While appellation systems and the protected designations of origin can be a way of protecting "unique ", the commercial importance of terroir has been a much debated topic in the wine industry.terroir Pinot noir Burgundian wines Protected designation of origin European Union Tuscany Sangiovese Chianti clonal variety terroirterroir Spanish Australian United States semi-generic Champagne Port Napa Declaration on Place terroir [1]
[] edit Commercial interests
The importance of , particularly to what extent it should influence the marketplace and pricing, is very much open to debate. Wine critics question the value of a Pinot noir wine proceeding from a Burgundy Grand Cru vineyard, relative to a wine produced from the "lesser " of a vineyard, and whether it merits the higher price. These doubts also arise when the quality of winemaking and other human influences are taken into account, which may be of a higher standard with the "lesser" . From a broader perspective, critics question the difference between and wine and whether modern winemaking techniques like significant oak influences, over-ripened fruit, cultured yeast, micro-oxygenation, color pigment additives, etc obscure or even eliminate the influence of in making different regions unique and distinct from each other. Critics often point to the "cookie-cutter" effect on mass-produced wines made from popular like , which may have their characteristics hidden through the use of invasive and intensive winemaking. A heavily-oaked, over-ripe Chardonnay from can taste very similar to the same style of wine from , , or . The marketability of wines from different regions and producers is impacted by the importance accorded to , both by the wine industry and consumer wine markets, with some producers downplaying and its impact on their wines.terroirterroir Premier Cru premier cru New World Old World terroir varietals Chardonnay terroir California Chile South Africa Italy Australia terroirterroir [1]
[] edit Popular culture
The concept of has been discussed in several films and television shows. 's 2004 documentary explores the of the wine business, and features interviews with a number of small producers, mostly French, who expound on the concept of . In the 2006 series , one episode is almost entirely devoted to teaching the concept of . At the end of the episode, James successfully identifies three wines, placing them in the correct order on the basis of the quality of they come from. and 's 2007 documentary "" explores the importance of and organic growing methods in both the quality and future sustainability of the market. Terroir is also a frequent topic of discussion in the Japanese wine comic . The romantic comedy also makes reference to terroir: 's character Luc introduces Kate - played by - to the flavours and scents that can be found in the wine that mirror those found in the local terrain. Terroir recognition is a plot turning point in the French comedy (The Wing or the Thigh) of 1976 with .terroir Jonathan Nossiter Mondovino globalization terroir BBC Oz and James's Big Wine Adventure Oz Clarke James May terroirterroir Les Blank Gina Leibrecht All In This Tea terroir Chinese tea Les Gouttes de Dieu French Kiss Kevin Kline Meg Ryan L'aile ou la cuisse Luis de funes