Frontier Communications Partners with Teradata And Scorecard Systems to Improve the Customer Experience
Using an Enterprise View of Data and Subscriber Analysis to Uncover and Address Subscriber Needs
--(NYSE: - ), announced today that it is now using a from Teradata Corporation (NYSE: - ), and a subscriber analysis application to gain better insight into their customer behavior. Frontier Communications is the nation's second largest rural local exchange telephone company, providing services including phone, Internet, wireless Internet and DISH satellite TV to customers in 24 states.TORONTO, Ontario & MIAMISBURG, Ohio, January 15, 2009--(BUSINESS WIRE) Frontier Communications FTR News Teradata Active Enterprise Data Warehouse TDC News Scorecard Systems
Teradata, the world’s largest company solely focused on and , provides integrated data to deliver a company-wide view of business operations, subscribers and customers. Scorecard Systems is a leader in subscriber analysis for carriers in the telephony, broadband, wireless and cable/satellite TV industries. By implementing the two together, Frontier will gain significantly more insight into customer and product movement. data warehousing enterprise analytics
"The combination of a Teradata Enterprise Data Warehouse and Scorecard’s Subscriber Analysis Application gives us great visibility into the needs and usage patterns of our customer base. Traditionally, fixed-line carriers have relied upon hard-coded reporting platforms that do not give deep insight into value-added service and bundled activity," said Scott DeLap, Frontier’s director of financial systems and reporting. "In contrast, our new deployment gives Frontier accurate, auditable and deep insight into migration paths, feature-level churn, and other key metrics. The allows us to link this data with all of our other key enterprise information and to process it quickly." Teradata platform
In addition, the Subscriber Analysis Application running directly on Teradata lets Frontier apply business rules and business intelligence tools uniformly for more detailed and accurate reporting and analysis.
"Telecom carriers worldwide realize that detailed subscriber and unit reporting is vital to their success. Traditional ‘add up the service orders and put the results in a spreadsheet,’ or hard-coded business rules in a homegrown solution, do not provide the accuracy and detail needed to analyze bundled, converged products," said Simon Marwood, chief executive officer of Scorecard Systems. "Frontier is leveraging the power of Teradata and the pre-built business rules engine from Scorecard to ensure its access to the most detailed, auditable level of information available. By accelerating the flow of information about customers’ response to product and service offerings, Frontier can easily adjust the business rules and linkages between products without a large IT development effort."
Frontier is also using the Teradata Solution to support its , its predictive analytics application and for business intelligence queries and reports for its finance organization. customer relationship management application
"The integrated data from throughout the enterprise in the Teradata Enterprise Data Warehouse gives Frontier a 360-degree view of products, customers and operations for better, faster decision making. In an ultra-competitive environment, Frontier knows that an excellent customer experience is a key differentiator and the competitive edge that will increase market share and boost retention," said David Grant, vice president of global industry solutions, Teradata. "Frontier is continuing to distinguish itself by focusing on areas that impact customer experience. Putting the customer first promotes their loyalty, resulting in profitability across products and services."
Frontier Communications Corporation (NYSE: - ) is one of the nation's largest rural local exchange carriers and offers phone, Internet, wireless Internet, DISH satellite TV, Peace of Mind computer support and more to residential and business customers in 24 states. For more information, visit .About Frontier Communications Corporation
FTR News www.frontieronline.com
Scorecard Systems Inc. was founded in 1996 as a business intelligence company specializing in telecommunications, cable and broadband companies. In 2000, the company developed its Subscriber Analysis Application, a robust application for delivering deeper, more accurate customer/service activity reporting. This application has been deployed at dozens of carriers, and measures results for over 100 million subscribers.About Scorecard Systems
Teradata Corporation (NYSE: - ) is the world's largest company solely focused on raising intelligence through data warehousing, consulting services and enterprise analytics. Teradata is in more than 60 countries and on the web at. Teradata is a trademark or registered trademark of Teradata Corporation in the United States and other countries.About Teradata