[] edit Germany
In , traffic policing on highways is the responsibility of the , otherwise of the state police. Germany Autobahnpolizei
[] edit United States
Many agencies in the are, for historical reasons, referred to as a highway patrol organization. state police United States
For instance, the is actually a state police agency, meaning that it is a police body having statewide authority to conduct law enforcement activities and criminal investigations. In addition to its highway patrol duties described above, it performs functions outside the normal purview of the city police or the , such as enforcing traffic laws on state highways and interstate expressways, overseeing the security of the state capitol complex, protecting the governor, training new officers for local police forces too small to operate an academy, providing technological and scientific support services, and helping to coordinate multi-jurisdictional task force activity in serious or complicated cases. The California Highway Patrol also serves as bailiffs and courtroom deputies for certain state courts, such as the appellate courts. The state traffic enforcement agency retained the name "California Highway Patrol" after the merger of the smaller with the larger California Highway Patrol and the combination of their functions into one agency. California Highway Patrol county sheriff California State Police
However, some Highway Patrol organizations, such as the are specifically charged with the enforcement of traffic laws, and while able to enforce other laws, they are "state police" agencies in the same vein as the California Highway Patrol or the . In other cases, states like Texas have a bona fide and appropriately-named state police department such as the , of which only one arm is a highway patrol unit. North Carolina State Highway Patrol not [1] New Jersey State Police Texas Department of Public Safety
A privately compiled list of Highway Patrol organizations and similar agencies is available on the Web. The maintains a list of phone numbers and and cell phone numbers for non-emergency calls to the dispatchers of the Highway Patrol organizations in all 50 states. These numbers are useful for motorists who want to report , , or other dangerous but not life-threatening situations that do not require a call. state police [2] Iowa State Patrol * # [3] aggressive drivers drunken drivers 9-1-1